Fantasy Allies=Allies aren't assumed to already be aligned with the PCs, but all of these NPCs are potential friends, supporters, patrons, and adventuring companions. That doesn't mean that they're all paladins in shiny gold armor who never use bad words, though-you'll find plenty of criminals, schemers, and other strange but fascinating bedfellows in this section. Whether their allegiance is temporary and circumstantial or long-lasting, your players will want to encounter these NPCs in your game.=252*=Benny the Bard=Tactless Troubadour="You're quite beautiful, even with that ugly mole on your forehead."=Appearance: He has finely chiseled features, a handsome face, and a winning smile. He dresses fashionably and is well aware of his charms.=Roleplaying: Benny is always the first to initiate a conversation, greeting people with a winning smile and initial complements. After an exchange or two, he always manages to blow it with a brutally honest assumption or observation. He delivers such lines in a matter-of-fact way.=Personality: He is friendly and outgoing, but, unfortunately, also brutally honest.=Motivation: He wants to find inspiration for his songs, as well as romance.=Background: Benny the Bard is a great musician and has many other talents helpful to his adventuring friends. Unfortunately, Benny's assets are always outweighed by his single liability: He can't help but blurt out brutally honest comments that invariably insult the person to whom he's speaking. Benny blames this on a curse, but no one that knows Benny can ever remember him not being that way. Oddly, Benny doesn't generally criticize his traveling companions. Occasionally, Benny's "curse" indirectly reveals useful information. For example, he once insulted an ambassador by commenting on his "duplicitous" eyes. As it turned out, the ambassador was involved in a plot to assassinate the local duke.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, charming, entertainment=253*=Tristan=Energetic Child="So how many monsters do you think we'll get to kill today?!"=Appearance: Tristan is a young boy with a huge, warm smile. His dirt-covered clothing is a byproduct of his exuberance.=Roleplaying: Tristan always wants to help, but there are so many interesting thin-ooh, what's that?!=Personality: Like all children, he is highly distractible and full of energy. He is perpetually curious.=Motivation: Tristan wants to find adventure and fun, but rarely realizes the danger involved.=Background: The night that Tristan was born, there was something peculiar in the air around the campsite of the traveling theater group. A passing faery decided to fly into the window of one of the wagons and gift the newborn Tristan with the ability to understand the ancient and forgotten language of a once-powerful race. As Tristan grew, his strange babblings seemed little more than childish play and no one realized their significance, save the few academics who briefly wondered why the young boy's songs sounded oddly familiar. Tristan is a quintessential "chosen one," but he hasn't realized or grown into his role yet. Fate decreed he be important to the world in some fashion, and that has caused the PCs to run across or be lead to him. While they need his help, his age is problematic and his curiosity is hard to handle. However, he is lovable and engenders feelings of protection in those around him. Perhaps another of the faery's gifts?=Traits: (JA) Child, entertainment, focal, magical=254*=Xeet, the Bearer of Pain=Intimidating Warrior="I have faced death on many occasions. I have yet to succumb to it. This time will be no different."=Appearance: Heavily scarred on every inch of his massive frame, Xeet's skin is like a patchwork quilt of wounds that have been stitched back together.=Roleplaying: He constantly rubs his hand across the back of his neck, as it has never healed properly from an attempt to decapitate him.=Personality: Xeet is quiet and appears to be annoyed by everything. In truth, he is in constant agony from the years of battle that he has faced. He wants nothing more than to retire from this life, but he knows no other trade.=Motivation: He enters battles in order to end them as quickly and as humanely as possible. If that means charging past the front line in order to cleave a field commander in half, so be it.=Background: Xeet left his family's farm at an early age to find adventure. He was quickly recruited into the local army due to his physical prowess and imposing stature. His exceptional skill on the battlefield has kept him alive through years of war and horror. Now a middle-aged man, he is no longer fit for regular service, but he is still hired for mercenary work. He privately weeps for anyone who falls in battle, both friend and foe.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, hideous, military, warrior=255*=Mrs. Arabella Devonshire=Quaint Shopkeeper="You have excellent taste. May I show you something? It will be the perfect accent to that ensemble."=Appearance: A middle-aged woman, she balances dainty spectacles on the end of her nose. She dresses in a buttoned up, high-neck blouse and a bustle with skirts draping to the floor that only show a dash of lace.=Roleplaying: Arabella is precise in her diction but often uses outdated, even formal, turns of phrase. Though she speaks in short sentences, her delivery is never flat nor clipped, but always respectful.=Personality: She prizes good manners in an old-fashioned way. Prim, but never prudish, Mrs. Devonshire insists on proper behavior, and instills it in all her customers by her own demeanor. Mindful of her proximity to the bawdy women, many of whom are her best customers, she mostly offers items that draw a clientele of a higher class. The decor of her shop is an extension of her personality: scented and dainty, but never overpowering.=Motivation: She sells perfumes and tasteful personal adornments from a small shop located just a stone's throw from the tawdry red-lantern district.=Background: There never was a Mr. Devonshire, though she cultivates her role as a widow, attributing a fictional inheritance as the means for opening the shop. In truth, she was a bawdy woman in another town and came here to start over. Though she's tried to distance herself from her past, she remains helpful to "the girls."=Traits: (TT) Business, merchant=256*=Oreamnos Surefoot=Wandering Merchant="Trade draws men closer, dispels their prejudices, and makes both sides richer in both purse and soul."=Appearance: It's difficult to say which is more notable, his expensive religious raiment, exceedingly proud demeanor, or elaborate goatee.=Roleplaying: He lectures with a near-condescending tone while stroking his goatee.=Personality: He's not evangelical, but is dedicated to his mission, and he becomes stubborn when he has a goal in sight.=Motivation: He is sworn to travel the world, explore unknown regions, and establish trade missions.=Background: Drawn to the god of trade at a very young age, Oreamnos was selected for the difficult and important Exploration Ministry. The Explorers forsake all goods except those they can carry, and travel the world to establish trade routes. Oreamnos has been in his position for decades, and has the best gear money can buy. Everything else he makes goes to the church, although he often requisitions equipment and transportation. His extensive travels and broad range of skills make him a knowledgeable resource and excellent traveling partner, but his lecturing tone can be wearing, and many have parted ways over his insistence on investigating every trade opportunity.=Traits: (KS) Famous, merchant, outdoorsman, religious=257*=Sir Peneford DeAbuville=Ordained Guardian="We see a great many dangers."=Appearance: Sir Peneford is sharp featured, with a balding head and a hook nose. He wears a fine doublet of green and gold, tight-fitting leather breeches, and a chaperon trimmed with fox fur. His billowy sleeves, he conceals leather vambraces and a pair of dueling daggers.=Roleplaying: Peneford loves to flaunt his knowledge-he is quick to correct and his speech is rapid and flowery. Always on the lookout for spies or people with hidden agendas, he will shamelessly ask probing questions of anyone. A bit of a snob, Peneford favors the royal "we."=Personality: He believes himself a keeper of knowledge and superior to others. It's what he can't share with the simpletons around him that truly bothers him.=Motivation: He's confident, but for good reason: He's well educated and financed. He seeks to preserve the Order at all costs.=Background: The Order of the Nine is a privileged secret society that steers governments and individuals according to their mostly benign agenda. Peneford's wealth and parentage assured his ascension into the order, and his penchant for maintaining loyalty at all costs won him the position of legate. As the legate for the Order of the Nine, he's tasked with preserving their time-honored rituals and ferreting out those who would oppose their plans. To this end, Peneford has been well trained in martial arts-which surprises many who cross steel with this academician.=Traits: (DM) Occult, warrior, wealthy=258*=Marguerite Russo=Reformed Criminal="I do miss <yawn> the excitement of the old days."=Appearance: She is a handsome, petite woman whose best days are just behind her. Her curly red hair has touches of gray.=Roleplaying: Having retired long ago, Marguerite is bored. She jumps at any chance to relive her glory days.=Personality: She is genuinely pleasant and enjoys her luxurious lifestyle, but misses her carefree days as a burglar.=Motivation: She wants to relive her past by doing "one more job." She is a reformed criminal and only takes jobs that aid the less fortunate or involve the return of stolen property.=Background: "Marguerite Russo" used to be Renee St. Cowan, a poor child brought up in a religious orphanage and given a saint's name as her surname. Unfortunately, war soon came and the king took money anywhere he could find it, including the coffers of the orphanage. Renee took to stealing to help, burglarizing noble mansions, and secretly giving her scores to the orphanage as anonymous donations. When the orphanage finally had to close its doors, the young Renee joined a thieves' guild and became an adventurer. Those were the best times of her life. After her last group disbanded, Renee was left with enough money to purchase a small barony. She changed her name and settled down. Still, she misses the old days, and it takes little to convince Marguerite to put her skills to use one more time.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, dilettante, saintly, wealthy=259*=Bernhart the Beneficent=Impulsive Noble="By strength of arms, let's put that to right!"=Appearance: Bernhart is a young, confidently strong man who always wears a puzzled expression. His brown hair is cut short, though his matching mustache is grand, and he tends to wear hunting leathers.=Roleplaying: He gestures with short, precise motions-even a dinner party is described like a battle. He frequently bows, and addresses women genteelly.=Personality: Bernhart is a lord and a man of action; hesitation is for quibblers. When the matter is personal, he offers immediate assistance. If it involves his duchy, he says that he'll have his advisors look into it.=Motivation: A generous lord and a true knight, a man of chivalry-that's how Bernhart hopes to be remembered. He knows that some take advantage, but that's a small price to be a good man. Hunting is clean and pure, a necessary revitalization after toiling on accounts.=Background: Bernhart was thrust into governance young, at the age of 11, after his father died in bed one night. He suspects that an assassin was responsible and would love to find proof. In the meantime, he protects his people and listens to his advisers, being the best ruler he can be. He knows his advisers have the experience he lacks even after governing for a decade-and he hates getting in conflicts with them.=Traits: (SM) Focal, leader, outdoorsman, political, warrior=260*=Osusk Nar=Eccentric Alchemist="Go ahead and collect the treasure. I'm going to remove these glands. I have a special potion in mind."=Appearance: Osusk is a short man whose simple clothes have small tears, rips, stains, and burns. His beard is thick and his hair wild. He carries a large knapsack filled with all manner of tools and containers.=Roleplaying: He is always thinking about the next great potion or discovery that he will make. He will sniff everything and taste most things, without knowing what they are. He examines everything from every angle.=Personality: Osusk has never fit in anywhere, but he doesn't care. Social cues don't register with him. Coupled with being direct and curious, Osusk is usually saying or doing something different from everyone else.=Motivation: Two factors drive the alchemist: a thirst for knowledge and a weakness for food, wine, and women. Both of these have left him without coin for most of his life. Only by selling what he learns and makes has he survived.=Background: Born in the wilderness, Osusk learned quickly that his mind was a better weapon than his brawn. He learned how to make things people wanted from items found in nature; he specializes in brewing potions. He learned that his items fetched a better price in the more civilized lands, so that's where he sells his wares. Despite doing his best not to act like a barbarian, he sometimes caves to temptation and blows all of his money on wine, women, and food.=Traits: (PV) Eccentric, impoverished, primal, scientist=261*=Fran Limnsman=Irritable Chirurgeon="What in the Hells do you mean by that? Cure your own damn gout!"=Appearance: Fran is dark skinned and dressed in an expensive, if shabby style. His collar and sleeves are constantly unbuttoned and his hair is a mess.=Roleplaying: Energetically talking with his hands, Fran paces endlessly. He takes offense quickly and for seemingly no reason, suddenly jumping from amiable chatter to clenched fists and shouting. =Personality: Fran genuinely wants to help his clients, but his thin skin and short temper often get in the way. After an outburst he is often genuinely remorseful, but the damage is already done.=Motivation: More than anything else, Fran just wants to live a normal quiet life, which is why he hates what his short fuse does to his relationships and his chirurgery and apothecary business.=Background: From a young age Fran's fiery disposition has caused him no end of trouble. Apprenticing under a string of masters and schools, he traveled extensively to find new places to study. In the process, he became an unusual source of local history and geography. Because his off-putting nature drives away respectable clients, Fran has been forced to cater to the undesirable element just to keep his business afloat, making him a useful underworld contact.=Traits: (MN) Criminal, eccentric, impoverished, medic=262*=Johann von Diemar=Just Sheriff="You say he stole your horse, but he says the horse bears his brand. Let's have a look in the stable, shall we?"=Appearance: Six feet, five inches and broad-shouldered, Johann has a large, hooked nose, a perpetually furrowed brow, and an easy smile. He walks with a slight limp.=Roleplaying: Johann pauses before he speaks, and then says as little as possible. When offered one side of a story, he always brings up the other side.=Personality: Johann's world is shades of gray-where morality is relative and no one is 100% right or wrong. He remembers the horrors of war keenly, and strives to avoid reliving them.=Motivation: Johann regards those he watches over as his children, and believes that everyone-no matter how unpleasant-deserves to be treated fairly. He believes deeply in the need for peace.=Background: When he returned home after fighting in the war, Johann temporarily stepped into the role of sheriff. Twenty years on, he's still there. Having killed dozens of men and been wounded himself, he has seen enough fighting to last a lifetime. He's a fair man entirely dedicated to preserving the peace, though if pressed, he'll draw his notched sword and back up his words with force. Greatly loved by the people in his region, he takes an immediate liking to anyone who shares his interest in rational, even-handed justice-including adventurers, provided they don't cause too much trouble.=Traits: (MR) Leader, outdoorsman, police, warrior=263*=Nestor Lancaster=Refugee Healer="I can heal your comrade, if you would see to take me with you."=Appearance: He is a frail-looking youth in ill-fitting clothes who glances around as if terrified of the world around him.=Roleplaying: Nestor is obviously well educated, with proper diction and manners, but acts nervous and scared.=Personality: The brutal murder of his family members has scarred Nestor with a lifelong fear of violence-or even the possibility of violence. Aside from that fear, he is exceedingly cerebral and driven to learn all he can of healing.=Motivation: He wishes only to survive and escape to somewhere safer, preferably with someone strong.=Background: A child prodigy in the healing arts, Nestor was the youngest of the ill-fated Lancaster noble clan. Betrayal by a supposed family ally led to the brutal slaughter of his entire clan. Nestor escaped the carnage but wound up living on the streets-a life the jittery, wounded boy was not at all suited for. Scarred deeply by the horrors of his past, Nestor doesn't know who he can trust, if anyone. He is not interested in politics or revenge, only escape from the violence that took his family. After reaching a safe haven, Nestor will almost certainly bury himself in study and practice of the healing arts.=Traits: (KS) Child, medic, royalty=264*=Sara White=Simpleminded Healer="Mend that break? Let me think... That takes plaster, two parts, and one of water..." =Appearance: Sara is a sparrow of a woman, wearing drab browns and grays, always spotted with blood or serum. She's short, brown-eyed, and always looking down-or three feet to your left.=Roleplaying: Sara never looks people in the face. She is constantly distracted and sometimes mutters lists of ingredients to herself, even during conversations.=Personality: She's simpleminded, but Sara always pushes herself to do her best. She always had a knack for healing, but study and lecture lose her immediately. Keeping track of everything is exhausting-there are all kinds of formulas to remember, mixtures of herbs to make poultices, and it's all really hard. She feels like a failure, even when she saves a life.=Motivation: Mending things drives Sara-and she's pretty good at it. She got a reputation as a healer when she was young, and feels hopelessly out of depth at everything else.=Background: Sara always wanted to help people, mend them, and heal them. She wasn't able to help her own mom, who died in the plague, and she's sure that it's because she wasn't smart enough to learn the right formulas. Memories of her mom haunt her and steal her focus all the time, especially when she's about to operate.=Traits: (SM) Eccentric, medic, saintly=265*=Elody Blackstout=Honorable Warrior="I fear we are mismatched. I will set aside my ax and face you bare-handed to make this fight a fair one."=Appearance: Elody carries a long-handled bearded ax and wears studded leather armor dyed a deep red. Her blond hair hangs down well past her shoulders; she ties it back before fights.=Roleplaying: She refuses to do anything she considers dishonorable, but she's not preachy about it. She's neither prideful nor humble.=Personality: Elody views life as that thing that happens between battles; setting down her ax would be unthinkable. She enjoys the thrill of battle without losing respect for combat or her opponent, and is fierce but without malice for her foes. If she killed a brigand in the woods, she would give him a decent burial.=Motivation: Carrying the ax wielded by her mother, and her grandfather before that, Elody strives to live up to her family's legacy of honor, valor, and strength of arms.=Background: Born from a long line of fighters, she was raised to believe that war comes to all people, and that therefore all people should be ready for war. She values her honor more than her own life and would die for her friends in a heartbeat, without hesitation. Not a leader, she prefers to follow someone who has earned her respect; if she loses that respect, she moves on. She's fought in armies, in mercenary companies, and alongside adventurers, and takes pride in a battle well-fought.=Traits: (MR) Military, saintly, warrior=266*=Theria=Vengeful Icon="We live. We die. Choose."=Appearance: Matted black hair extends down the length of her body, obscuring features. She wears gossamer clothing that was once semi-transparent, now torn and discolored. Bits of dried earth and foliage adorn her darkly mottled skin. Her fingernails are grotesquely long and razor sharp.=Roleplaying: She stares with an impeccable-and disconcerting-calmness, never raising her raspy voice.=Personality: Theria's transformation has left her a cold woman bent on revenge. She does not engage in banter and is always focused on her current goal. She gives no quarter and is an emotionless killing machine. Only the cries of the suffering innocent give her pause.=Motivation: Raised by the primal spirits to avenge her horrific death, Theria seeks to dispatch justice to those who have been wronged. She has no respect for law or civilized justice. Her justice is that of a higher power.=Background: Slaughtered by barbarian warriors and left for dead, Theria crawled back home across the swampy moors, her wounds festering in the muddy waters. Legends say that her anguished howl at the sight of her dismembered family can still be heard across the moor on dark nights. Whether she truly lived or died that night is uncertain, but now the simple peasant girl has refined herself into a finely honed warrior who eviscerates her foes and leaves them to bloody, agonizing deaths. For those seeking penance or solace, she will end their existence swiftly.=Traits: (DM) Mysterious, primal, warrior=267*=Hatar the Augur=Child Oracle="It is good to see you again, my friend. Say nothing else; I already know why you are here. I saw it all in a vision."=Appearance: Hatar is nine years old, just over four feet tall, and plump. His hair is shaved except for three long braids, which originate behind his left ear. His head is tattooed with ornate lines. =Roleplaying: He has a deep stare that isn't threatening or intimidating. He holds his hands palm-to-palm in front of him while listening. He nods slowly when people talk, and when he speaks it's in a slow, soft voice.=Personality: Despite his age, he has wisdom beyond his years. He is rarely surprised, and gives off an aura of calm. He hasn't lost his childish charm, which puts people at ease.=Motivation: He was raised to serve his church as an oracle. He understands the role he plays and approaches it with great respect.=Background: Hatar's birth fulfilled a prophecy for his church. It foretold the coming of a great oracle who would lead his people into an age of prosperity. His church raised him from birth. At the age of five, Hatar had his first vision. Since then, his visions have increased in frequency. He has become able to control his abilities only recently. Visions of his early demise plague his mind, but he has not shared this news with anyone.=Traits: (PV) Charming, child, occult=268*=Jasper Oscamedes=Remorseful Wizard="There're just some magical powers that shouldn't be meddled with-ever!"=Appearance: He's in his middle years, still handsome and fit, with a professorial air. His clothes all come in muted tones, and might even be called stodgy.=Roleplaying: Jasper will do his best to answer nearly all inquiries about magic, but his advice always comes with a finger-waggling warning.=Personality: In nearly every aspect of his life, he's known for his restraint. Beneath this measured consideration lies a deep well of remorse. For Jasper, the arcane arts are mainly a theoretical pursuit-the ivory towers of academia, a sanctuary. Whenever he is outside the halls of learning, when he's forced to cope with real-life confrontations and decisions, he experiences discomfort, even panic. He clearly expresses disdain for any frivolous application of magic, and he demonstrates his own magical aptitude with great reluctance. In truth, he is afraid-paralyzed, even-of making a mistake while casting spells.=Motivation: He wants his students to develop a healthy respect for magic.=Background: Jasper was a gifted wizard. In many ways, he remains so. As a young man, he went on many great adventures and had a reputation for using his magic in a cavalier fashion. Then the careless use of magic caused irreparable harm to a companion. Even though the victim forgave him, the experience and guilt caused him to retreat into a scholarly shell.=Traits: (TT) Academic, magical, scholar=269*=Ketah Nembahlek=Disturbed Seer="I warn you people of the end times, and for what? Peasant's rags and beggar's scraps? Why do you seek me out and then refuse to listen? If you will not heed my messages, then at least leave me be!"=Appearance: She is filthy from personal neglect, and her matted hair makes her look much older than she truly is. Her clothing is a mismatched collection of frayed garments that others have discarded as trash.=Roleplaying: She breathes through her mouth and stares intensely at anyone who speaks to her as if she sees something beyond their physical presence. She scratches at her chin as if lost in thought, but is acutely aware of her surroundings.=Personality: Ketah despises most people, and feels no remorse in letting them know this. She respects the forces of nature and magic with fanatical loyalty, and will toil tirelessly to maintain sacred sites of power, despite not caring about her own appearance.=Motivation: She sees beyond the now and past the physical. She can't stop herself from serving the greater forces of the cosmos.=Background: Ketah was born into some wealth, and received an excellent education. Yet material comforts mean nothing to her, for she can hear the dead amongst the living and is shown the future through the movements of the stars. Such knowledge is a burden no person should bear, and it has cost Ketah everything.=Traits: (PB) Counselor, impoverished, occult=270*=Sarjeva Romelain=Bumbling Summoner="There are more guards than I expected, but don't worry-I'll just call up a few friends."=Appearance: Sarjeva's bright green eyes peer out from between three huge, livid scars that cover almost her entire face.=Roleplaying: Sarjeva insists, often to the point of madness, that she's a master summoner who can wrap demons around her pinky finger.=Personality: Most who meet Sarjeva would call her "plucky," but those who get to know her tend to regard her as more than a little frightening. She's intense, dramatic, and stubborn.=Motivation: Sarjeva wants to prove she can succeed at anything, and will jump at the chance to show off her skills in the face of danger-no matter how foolish the endeavor.=Background: Bullied for years as a young girl, Sarjeva turned to magic to seek revenge. She plunged in way out of her depth, however, calling up a powerful demon that ate her master; she fled with his spell book. She knows just enough summoning magic to be dangerous-and, usually, more dangerous to her enemies than to her friends. More than anything, she needs friends who will accept her faults and a teacher who will sharpen her grasp of the summoner's art. PCs who can provide either will earn her undying friendship.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, aggressive, humorous, magical=271*=Norman Apswitch=Oddball Bounty Hunter="‘Tweren't nothin'. He needed brought in, an' I did it. That's all."=Appearance: Norman wears standard-issue light guard's armor festooned with fetishes and trophies from his hunts. His wild mane is loosely braided and intertwined with herbs and feathers. He bears numerous tattoos of shamanistic wards.=Roleplaying: Many people feel nervous under Norman's trademark wordless stare, but when he does talk he's always polite and complimentary, though his language skills are rusty from long stretches without human company.=Personality: Norman uses his skills to hunt dangerous fugitives in the wilderness, but considers himself largely replaceable, and is grateful he can use his abilities to help others.=Motivation: Protecting others, doing the best job he can, and making a better tomorrow for others drives Norman to never give up a difficult hunt.=Background: Norman has been more comfortable in the forest than in town for his whole life, and started his career as a huntsman, stalking game for food. Now hunting more difficult prey, Norman takes advantage of every superstition that promises an edge over his quarry. As he ages, his thoughts have begun to lean towards training his replacements and retiring to a hunting lodge, but he realizes it's far more likely he'll meet his fate at the end of a fugitive's blade.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, eccentric, police, outdoorsman=272*=Lora Rameris=Puzzle-Solving Adventurer="The right spell, the right place, the right result. It's really just a matter of improvising with what you are given."=Appearance: Lora's brown hair is often held back in a French braid. She wears a leather vest full of pockets and her pack is overflowing with odd items and charms. Her wooden staff seems to have grown around the gem held in the top.=Roleplaying: Lora always has many ideas for how to get around obstacles. Whether it is magic, picking locks, talking her way past guards, or intricate plans for how to take down a country, she is full of ideas. She enjoys playing with metal or wooden puzzles to keep sharp.=Personality: She is quick and capricious, always looking for interesting solutions.=Motivation: Lora enjoys unraveling things. She likes to get past barriers and see what is behind them. She also enjoys being the one who can solve anyone's problem and will often take on a task just to prove she can do it.=Background: Some training in magical ways has given Lora a plethora of minor utilitarian magic that she can employ to overcome situations. She is a true genius when it comes to overcoming puzzles or finding unique solutions, but her warped sense of humor makes her an annoyance to some parties. She gets bored easily, and will leave a group if she gets bored or they get too annoyed with her jokes.=Traits: (JA) Adventurer, crafter, magical=273*=Quorra Kang=Tough Mercenary="You have one chance to walk away."=Appearance: Quorra cuts an imposing figure. Her steely face often shows no sign of emotion, except in combat, when it reveals feral glee. She has a hard, lithe body and she moves with a feline gait. She also has exotic features; her skin and hairstyle doesn't match those of the general population.=Roleplaying: She isn't one for long conversations. When she speaks, she is direct and to the point. Her tone is always one of agitation, as if speaking is too much of an effort.=Personality: Quorra's a tough fighter and only seems happy when fighting. She drags out her time fighting opponents, taunting and hurting them before delivering the final blow.=Motivation: She's a mercenary. While she doesn't look for fights, she enjoys defeating opponents with high opinions of themselves.=Background: Quorra Kang is a foreigner and doesn't like to speak about her past. In truth, she was a gladiator slave. She survives by using her skills while keeping a lookout for the hunters that were sent to capture or kill her. Due to her background, Quorra subconsciously plays to the audience. She uses flashy moves and picks opponents apart piece by piece rather than taking them down with a few powerful blows. That said, she fights efficiently when necessary. Quorra doesn't make friends easily, but she is fiercely loyal to those she has.=Traits: (WC) Entertainment, mysterious, warrior=274*=Jacad Riworar=Grizzled Healer="You come and bother me at this time of night to heal that?! It's not that much blood loss. Oh fine, stop groaning, sit here, and let me see what you've done."=Appearance: Jacad is tall and thin, with wrinkled, mottled skin. His long white hair is thin, and he dresses in long robes that are out of date.=Roleplaying: Jacad resents all of his patients for putting themselves in a situation that requires his service. He will mock their suffering, often calling them children or belittling their injuries.=Personality: He's seen it all. He's intense and most people find him intimidating. He always has a story about a time worse than the current hardship.=Motivation: Jacad has been a healer for far too long. He grudgingly performs his tasks, but he's always looking for someone he can teach his craft to, so he can pass on the responsibility.=Background: Jacad has been a healer since he was a young man, which was very long ago. Over the years, he has honed his skills healing adventurers and has seen all manner of injury. Adventurers are a wily lot, and Jacad learned early on to act tough and not let them push him around. Over the years, being tough has aged to bitterness. Adventurers know that no one is better than Jacad-no matter how mean he is to them.=Traits: (PV) Academic, ancient, medic=275*=Saendra Swifthands=Fugitive Guildmaster="Esmeri silk on a cutpurse? That can mean only one thing, friends."=Appearance: A short, attractive, raven-haired woman in her late twenties, Saendra wears simple cosmetics and a constant but false smile. Her clothes are rich, foreign, and out of date.=Roleplaying: She carefully looks both ways before she speaks, as if fearing eavesdroppers. Saendra strives for a sultry voice, but fails.=Personality: Saendra calculates and plans. She believes that the presentation of a fact is often more important than the fact itself, so she chooses loaded words and implies more than she can honestly say.=Motivation: She schemes to return to a position of power-either in the local guild, or in the aftermath of its collapse. She's happy to do favors for the PCs if they're the type to return favors, but she's always counting the debt.=Background: Once one of the youngest leaders of a guild of thieves far to the south, Saendra didn't realize that she was a figurehead until she crossed the wrong faction. Then she was too busy running to worry about much else. Now that she's settled in, she has no desire to risk her life going back, but she has no patience for starting at the bottom, and she hates having to hide from the locals. She's fallen back on her old skills, burgling and opening locked items.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, charming, criminal, impoverished, notorious, stealthy=276*=Dame Katarina d'Aquitaine=Influential Performer="Smile nonchalantly, no matter what you feel inside. Keep the bastards guessing."=Appearance: She is an elegant older lady who considers others carefully with her enigmatic smile and watchful eyes. =Roleplaying: In her cultured accent, she is both helpful and outspoken.=Personality: She's brutally honest, but guarded; her idealism is balanced by a pragmatic attitude.=Motivation: She wants to help those she finds deserving, and develop future allies.=Background: An orphan adopted by a minor noble, Katarina's beauty, acting talent, and clear voice enthralled many at court. Her parents taught her to care for the less fortunate, but their idealism was unpopular at court. They were sent to a distant outpost and died in a border incursion, leaving their teenaged prodigy to fend for herself in the capital city. In the decades since, Katarina has achieved great fame and fortune as a performer. In the process, she has overcome much adversity, from the vagaries of popularity to outright conspiracy. She has been titled, made many contacts, and learned the skills necessary to navigate the dangerous shoals of the court, and now looks to honor the ideals of her parents by finding deserving souls to advise and ally with. Dame Katarina would be a good mentor for a party who suddenly found themselves in a courtly situation.=Traits: (KS) Beautiful, charming, entertainment, famous=277*=Quinn Marxon=Jovial Warrior="This troupe is one of the finest in the kingdom! I know. I see their stirring performances firsthand. Their acting prowess is so great that not one single magistrate has ever ruled against them in a trial. Their show, on the other hand, is bloody awful. Ha!"=Appearance: He is slender and handsome with bright green eyes and long flowing brown hair. His longsword, scabbard, and bracers are adorned with onyx stones and bronze inserts that accentuate his dashing smile.=Roleplaying: Always smiling, Quinn hates to see others in a bad mood and will poke fun at himself if it lifts another person's spirits. He compliments others often, without patronizing them.=Personality: Optimistic and enthusiastic, he has a genuine passion for living in the moment. His goodwill is infectious, and his natural charm has wooed many a maiden.=Motivation: Quinn wants to see the world, meet its people, and to laugh heartily every day.=Background: Raised by the state and put into military service as a teenager, Quinn served through years of rigorous training and little combat. Eventually, he was released from duty because he lacked "the serious nature required of a proper soldier." Left with only his few personal belongings and his ceremonial sword and bracers, Quinn found work providing protection for a traveling troupe of entertainers. Eventually they asked that he choreograph their fight scenes, and now he even has small parts in the shows.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, entertainment, warrior=278*=Jebediah Pathfinder=Vengeful Huntsman="Merchant, the spoor is fresh and your wagon half-empty. Give honest answers or I'll fell you like a yearling doe."=Appearance: Jebediah is a grizzled hunter, with a day's stubble, piercing green eyes, and half his left ear missing. Raven-dark hair hangs over his well-tanned skin.=Roleplaying: Jebediah keeps a bow or staff within easy grasp, ever tense and alert. He studies individuals with his peripheral vision, rarely facing them head on. He's terse, parting with words as reluctantly as coin. When he does speak, it's in a gravelly voice with a foreign accent.=Personality: He's confident-centuries of experience have honed his skills. He's also suspicious, focused, and hard to mislead.=Motivation: Survivor's guilt tugs at him; so many friends were lost. His goddess must be responsible for his absence, sparing him to avenge this terrible wrong by tracking the villains to their lair and spilling blood for blood.=Background: Jebediah was the cult's ceremonial hunter for more than a century-his aging halted by a draught of timeless elixir. A month ago he returned from hunting to find the chapter house in ashes, along with his lifelong friends. His keen skills were sufficient to track the perpetrators through two villages and into a great city, but the trail vanished on the cobblestones. Now he has to find allies and ask difficult questions before the trail goes cold.=Traits: (SM) Ancient, outdoorsman, religious=279*=Braden Tourmaline=Enormous Butler="Of course, sir."=Appearance: At nearly seven feet tall, Braden is a giant man, though handsomely proportional in all his features. He moves with a grace that belies his stature. His clothes, including his shined shoes, are finely tailored. There's nary a hair out of place.=Roleplaying: He is a gentleman's gentleman: exceptionally skilled in all his domestic duties, meticulous, and graceful. On the rare occasions when he speaks, it's in a high-pitched, squeaky voice that seems out of place.=Personality: Quiet but alert, little escapes his notice. Braden's loyalty to his employer is without exception. He won't discuss his past, but he's demonstrated that he's a capable bodyguard, cook, courier, and secretary. He always suggests straightforward action when asked for advice.=Motivation: His only wish is to provide the best service with honor, distinction, and discretion.=Background: Never able to fit in because of his size, he entered military service. In weapons training, he developed the coordination he lacked growing up, and he acquired discipline during his uniformed service. When he saved an officer's life, the young aristocrat took approving notice of his skills. The officer offered Braden a job as his valet and confidante. His main job is to see to his gentleman's grooming, wardrobe, and professional and personal schedule. They have maintained that arrangement for nearly two decades.=Traits: (TT) Counselor, mysterious=280*=Landwehr=Analytical Trapfinder="It's not that you need to check every door for poison needles, just the ones that have them."=Appearance: Landwehr is tall, sinewy, fast, and firm. Her long hair and clothing are always neat and clean.=Roleplaying: She is constantly alert, perceptive, calm, and focused. She squints with a focused stare.=Personality: Landwehr is smart and detail-oriented. She never betrays herself and schools every aspect of her physical and emotional being.=Motivation: She seeks to perfect herself and make up for the tragedies caused by her past mistakes.=Background: Like many of the other orphaned children created by the war, Landwehr was happy to take the few coins that the explorers offered to bypass or set off traps in the local ruins. Unlike many of the other children, she had a talent for doing it without losing limb or life. When the master of a thieves' guild noticed this skill, he took her under his wing and made her a member. During training, she quickly surpassed her instructors in every skill they could teach her. Filled with hubris, she made a fatal error on her first mission, costing four comrades their lives. Vowing to never let it happen again, she trained relentlessly, honing her perceptiveness and skill to unnatural levels. Now she works for hire, lending her incredible skills to those who catch her eye with enough coin or a worthy goal.=Traits: (JA) Adventurer, artist, stealthy=281*=Rebald the Lackey=Incompetent Hero="I can handle a sword pretty well myself-ouch!"=Appearance: He is an average man whose stomach has seen one too many tankards of ale. He's a bit above the average age for a lackey or squire and generally has one or two bruises on his face.=Roleplaying: Rebald is always angling to "do" something rather than play a supporting role. He eagerly volunteers for any mission, no matter how dangerous, and often doesn't tell his employer, as he feels he can handle things himself.=Personality: He is overly effusive and helpful. Unfortunately, he fancies himself as capable as the one he serves and often attempts to accomplish acts best left to the professional.=Motivation: He wants to be a hero rather than carry the sword for one.=Background: All his life, Rebald only wanted to be a hero. Unfortunately, Lady Luck had other plans. Rebald was born into the wrong class and station to achieve greatness. His skills, while excellent for being a henchman or lackey, always fail him when he tries to be a hero. Rather than be content with what he does well, Rebald tries to grab the brass ring and always falls short. Rebald can be a squire, priest's assistant, or even a perpetual sorcerer's apprentice. While doing his official duties, he always excels; when he tries to play hero, he always manages to fail miserably.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, humorous=282*=Micklin "Mickey" Fell=Paranoid Fence="Let's not be too hasty here. There's coin to be made if we don't screw this up."=Appearance: His black hair is slicked back and stubble darkens his chin. Micklin wears a plain cotton shirt and drab breeches. Large rings adorn his stubby, fat fingers. A festive drink is often nearby.=Roleplaying: He smiles broadly but nervously looks about. Micklin talks softly and in a friendly tone, dabbing sweat from his brow regardless of the temperature.=Personality: Mickey's always expecting the worst and his nerves are shot to hell. His contacts are impeccable and he's proud of the reputation he has developed in the quasi-legal business world.=Motivation: He's looking for the next big score and just hoping nothing goes wrong this time! Just one more job and then he's free to retire…=Background: Micklin's original trade was as a middleman and fence. Many years ago, he had a run in with the law, stolen goods still in his possession. He was smart enough to keep his mouth shut and lucky enough to keep his head attached to his neck-earning him a reputation for discretion and loyalty. In reality, Micklin is a coward who faints at the slightest threat of torture and keeps poor records. He doesn't deal in illegal activities per se, but he's not above putting the characters in contact with someone who does…for a price. The criminal elements pay Mickey no mind, as he's not a threat.=Traits: (DM) Business, focal, white collar=283*=Sasha Bitterswood=Vigilante Activist="I cut him only as much as he deserved!"=Appearance: Curvaceous and fiercely handsome despite her maturity, Sasha wears sumptuous finery while working and socializing. During her nocturnal excursions, she dresses with an eye towards functionality and inconspicuousness.=Roleplaying: Usually outgoing and warm, Sasha is forceful and unyielding when fighting for a reform or dealing with argumentative underlings.=Personality: Sasha insists that the perfect society can be built, and crusades tirelessly in pursuit of it. When an individual is a thorn in the side of progress, either a criminal or, rarely, a rival, she maintains a pleasant façade, but does what must be done in the back alleys.=Motivation: The betterment of society, especially the rights of women, is Sasha's primary cause.=Background: Despite being born into a privileged family, Sasha has seen firsthand the trouble of the common people and has built a career out of working to improve the conditions of society. She does what she can through government office and sponsoring enlightened policy, but when necessary, she isn't above taking the law into her own hands making an example of a particularly heinous criminal or stubborn traditionalist. By night, she brings savage vigilante justice to criminals the guard cannot catch or political rivals who block progress.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, beautiful, political, stealthy, wealthy, white collar, zealot=284*=Darius Bellwater=Focused Tactician="Do not lie to me! Especially when it involves Jessica."=Appearance: Darius is muscled and tough. His face bears scars and hides his emotions, showing only his uncompromising nature.=Roleplaying: Darius is solid and dependable, but intensely focused.=Personality: He is tough, polished, and controlled, except when it comes to his sister, Jessica. He never turns on comrades, unless they hinder his pursuit of Jessica. Then he leaves to work on his own.=Motivation: Darius searches for news of his sister, who was kidnapped from their village years ago.=Background: When his sister was kidnapped, Darius tried to find her the "correct" way: contacting the king's guard, offering rewards, and using official resources, all to no avail. The search continued, and a run-in with a mercenary provided him two things: a message from the warlord his sister was enslaved to in the form of a humiliating beat-down, and proof that the official ways didn't work. He began investigating in new ways. He joined up with mercenary groups and proved himself a master of combat tactics and strategy. He also toughened himself up, covering his keen intelligence behind a rough and hardened frame. While not much of a fighter, he is tough enough to prove himself to employers. His wide web of contacts and diverse knowledge of tactics used by military groups has proven invaluable to many organizations, so long as they can get him closer to freeing his sister.=Traits: (JA) Military, police, zealot=285*=Princess Alexandra Ves'ryn=Macho Weaponsmith="I know you prefer a lighter blade, but trust me this sword is lighter than it looks. I used the lightest and most resilient metals to create it."=Appearance: Alexandra is plain looking, but not unattractive. Her build is wide in the shoulders and narrow in the hips. She wears her blond hair shorter than the other court women, and rarely wears gowns, preferring slacks and blouses.=Roleplaying: No one ever accused the princess of being ladylike. She laughs loudly, claps people on their shoulders, and doesn't hesitate to push people in jest. =Personality: Alexandra is macho. She's a woman most comfortable in the company of men, laughing and swapping stories with them. She is immensely knowledgeable in weapons: their construction, history, and use.=Motivation: She's obsessed with creating the finest of weapons, but her true passion lies in the dream of one day creating a new weapon that will change the battlefield. =Background: The youngest child in a family of brothers, the princess was a tomboy since she could walk. When the king refused her entry into the military, she funneled her frustration and her intellect into the art of weaponsmithing. Her creations are well-known for their beauty and deadliness. She loves to spend time with adventurers listening to their stories and sparring with them. =Traits: (PV) Crafter, genius, royalty=286*=Kilp Whitebow=Prissy Adventurer="If we're going into that tomb, I must fetch my dungeoneering boots. And polish them, of course."=Appearance: Kilp is short, slender, and exceptionally well-groomed. He wears spotless clothes and carries a crossbow made of white wood wrapped in oilcloth.=Roleplaying: When Kilp isn't picking at invisible pieces of lint or twirling one end of his mustache, he's smoothing nonexistent wrinkles in his tunic.=Personality: For such a fussy little man, Kilp is surprisingly unfazed by just about anything except dirt. Everything separating him from treasure is just a petty annoyance, put there to vex him.=Motivation: Kilp loves shiny baubles and hates the thought of someone else finding them first.=Background: Kilp's talent with a crossbow is matched only by his prissiness about his appearance; he uses his crossbow like it's a part of his body, and it's every bit as polished as he is. No one knows why Kilp became an adventurer, and apart from the treasure, he seems to dislike just about every aspect of his profession-yet he traipses on, unconcerned what others think of him. Partnered with people who can put up with his quirks, Kilp will quickly prove himself to be a valuable, and fearless, ally. He knows a surprising amount about wilderness survival and monster lore for someone who hates to get mud on his best traveling cloak.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, eccentric, humorous, outdoorsman, warrior=287*=Theodora, Sonja's Daughter=Driven Mercenary="They will pay to the last inch, the very last."=Appearance: Almost a beauty, Theodora stands tall and thin, her appearance marred by a wide, red scrape across her neck. Muscles stand corded when she clenches her fists and her eyes narrow down to almost total black when she glares.=Roleplaying: Theodora is full of pent-up energy; she paces, ticks chairs with her sword tip, and smiles with menace. Always tense, her arms swing as she quickly walks.=Personality: She's a barely contained bomb that's ready to blow. Only strong good sense stops her from throwing her life away in a futile frontal assault.=Motivation: Burning with anger and a need to strike back, Theodora supports any cause that discomfits the local nobility. She is desperate to punish the perpetrators.=Background: Last year "bandits" came out of the woods and set her family's house on fire. As they fled, each member of her family was shot with a crossbow or speared to death. Theodora almost met the same fate; her "bandit" caught her in the side of the throat with his spear blade and didn't check when she fell. While she lay dazed, the bandits talked freely as they looted, revealing themselves as servants of the neighboring baron. The king has already sided with the guilty baron, ruling her family's death a bandit attack, leaving her no just path-only vengeance. Since then she has trained as a mercenary, learning quickly.=Traits: (SM) Adventurer, aggressive, warrior=288*="Rock" Clemensa=Underworld Fence="Name your price. Bah! Don't be offended! Everything has a price, though it is not always in coin."=Appearance: He is an elegantly dressed and meticulously groomed middle-aged man from a foreign culture and, no matter where he is, will act as though he owns the place.=Roleplaying: Rock portrays an unshakable confidence and speaks with a thick foreign accent.=Personality: Behind the façade, Rock is always curious and learning new things. He learned the importance of a good reputation early, and works hard to maintain his.=Motivation: He seeks to build his business through the loyalty of his clients and the gathering of good information.=Background: As a young criminal, Clement learned quickly that the fence takes the least risk, but often gains the most from the deal. He pursued his new career with gusto. After a particularly hard-negotiated but profitable exchange with a desperate client who described him as "unmoving as rock itself," the man known as Clement disappeared. In his wake appeared "Rock" Clemensa, a mysterious character whose strong foreign accent and blunt exterior hide his calculating personality. Since then, Rock has leveraged his notoriety well, and his success in the black market has inspired him to try his hand at organized crime. From the beginning, he ensured his organization would garner a reputation for adherence to contracts and loyalty to allies. Behind the scenes, they pursue and collect information as aggressively as they do merchandise.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, criminal, merchant, notorious, wealthy=289*=Cap'n Johann Spencer=Rakish Privateer="A pirate, you say? No sir! I'm a good king's man: a privateer in service to the crown. I will defend my honor and that of my crew against anyone who says otherwise."=Appearance: He's barrel-chested, with arm and leg muscles like iron bands. His swarthy complexion comes from hours spent under the hot tropical sun.=Roleplaying: Johann is crafty, always looking for an angle. As a combatant, he's reckless.=Personality: He's two men. At sea and as captain, he's a firm disciplinarian and mission-oriented-"All-business," as the crew likes to say. In port, he's as dissolute as any bilge rat, a libertine who takes his pleasures with almost no regard for convention or order. His devotion to his crew is one of his few redeeming qualities.=Motivation: He wants to plunder, to take the gold and jewels from the holds of enemy ships, and to immerse himself in all the pleasures the treasure will purchase.=Background: Captain Spencer is an educated man, but one who could not conform to the rigid demands of respectable society. He found freedom at sea and in plying the waters around the colonial holdings of his native land, but it's his rakish approach to life and disregard for civilized behavior that keeps him from making a transition to being a gentleman.=Traits: (TT) Adventurer, business, eccentric, pilot, wealthy=290*=Sanida Aemountu=Miserly Adventurer="An inn? We do not need such lavish accommodations. That kind of luxury leads to decadence and straying from the divine messages. What coin we have should go to the church."=Appearance: Sanida is a plain-looking woman with short hair and a thin, strong body. She wears simple armor that has been repaired many times. Her sword is also utilitarian.=Roleplaying: She shakes her head slightly and says "tsk-tsk" when anyone wants to spend money on any luxury. She always pays close attention to the division of any loot.=Personality: Sanida is a miser and never misses an opportunity for making money, as long as it doesn't violate divine law. She never spends money frivolously, preferring to camp instead of visit an inn and eat simple rations instead of a lavish meal.=Motivation: A devout woman, Sanida adventures in order to make money or find treasure that she can use to fund her church. She wants her church to be a beacon to the masses and a tribute to her god.=Background: Sanida was born into slavery. A group of holy warriors freed her in her teens. From that time, she dedicated her life to their god and beliefs. To show homage, she built a modest church in a small town and vowed that it will one day be a great temple. To this end, she adventures to hoard as much money as she can.=Traits: (PV) Focal, religious, warrior=291*=Ginnie Moore=Feebleminded Mercenary="You're the one who asked me to open the door. How was I supposed to know you meant with the handle, not my ax?"=Appearance: Ginnie's tiny frame, crooked-toothed smile, and absent stare mean her dense muscles and numerous scars often catch observers off guard.=Roleplaying: Most of the time Ginnie is fairly withdrawn and lost in her own little world. She rarely questions what she's told and only focuses well on the simplest of tasks. She's also fairly naïve and sensitive, despite her violent career, making her an easy mark.=Personality: Ginnie is bubbly and pleasant, though easily distracted. When concentrating on a task at hand, she is often blinded to other stimuli.=Motivation: Lacking the capacity to worry about long-term plans, Ginnie usually lives in the moment and does whatever seems like a good idea at the time.=Background: Born to a large, poor family and tasked with manual labor early in life, Ginnie was always tougher than she was smart, and a childhood of back alley scraps and irritable livestock did nothing to enhance her mentally. Setting off on her own, she spent several years as a mercenary before falling in with a group of ne'er-do-wells who take advantage of her limited intellect to manipulate her into doing their dirty work. It's only a matter of time before she gets into more trouble than she can handle.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, criminal, warrior=292*=Skeld the Salty=Experienced Merchant="In the south they emphasize striking with swiftness, drawing steel in an eye's blink."=Appearance: Skeld is 43 and balding with a fringe of speckled brown hair. He's still lithe and strong, with piercing blue eyes. He wears rich, bright clothing.=Roleplaying: He walks slowly, often coughing into a handkerchief, but is vibrant in conversation. Skeld clasps his hands to call for attention and uses nautical terms whenever possible, using port for left, even saying "swab yer faces" to ask people to clean up for dinner.=Personality: Skeld is slowing down and has felt death brush by; he's eager to pack in good living and enjoy his family in the meantime. He has seen a lot of the world and has a love for namedropping. =Motivation: He is devoted to his family and the firm that has given him such a prosperous life. Skeld waxes nostalgic about his time abroad, but refuses to trade being home with his family for anything.=Background: After serving in several roles in a mercantile firm, first as a sailor, then as cargo handler, Skeld finally became an overseas factor-a purchaser and agent. He spent months at a time overseas, negotiating and arranging complex deals. A few years ago, he caught a tropical fever and returned home, where he continues to work diligently. These days he's training his oldest son, Thaddeus, to take over his role in the company.=Traits: (SM) Business, merchant, wealthy, white collar=293*=Zadonna Ruega de Cadonia=Flashy Wizard="Why simply float you over the wall? It is much more impressive to blast it open with a flame bolt!"=Appearance: She always stands out, but not because she is particularly attractive, nor because she has a stunning personality. She is always outlandishly dressed and wears distinctive hairstyles that invite comment.=Roleplaying: Zadonna is overeager to improve any plan by choosing spells emphasizing flair over subtlety. Even when she promises to do what is asked she'll sometimes go with her gut instead.=Personality: She's a wizard with the soul of an artist, and spellcasting is her medium. She is loyal to her friends and wants them to succeed, but sometimes she just can't help herself.=Motivation: She wants to be remembered as a trendsetter, and for her friends and enemies to respect her magical artistry.=Background: Zadonna was born into an artistic family. While most of her family members were skilled artists and artisans, Zadonna never showed any special artistic promise until she was apprenticed to a local wizard. With eldritch energies at her command, Zadonna found that she had a gift for sorcery. Unfortunately, the frustrated artist inside of her demanded to be let out. Although she is an extremely competent wizard, Zadonna can't help but use the flashiest spells in her arsenal. Even if a mission relies on stealth, she'll convince herself that flair is necessary, and eventually fall back on flashy spells at awkward times.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, artist, eccentric, magical=294*=Sir Naud Ardwor=Deluded Explorer="Ah yes, you are correct I am indeed the discoverer of the lost island Souldust. Another expedition? Of course! Though you do know it's dangerous there, right?"=Appearance: Sir Naud is short, with thick black hair and a constant five o'clock shadow. He is in good shape, handsome, and well-dressed.=Roleplaying: He never hesitates, never considers fear, and always assumes everything will work out fine. Puzzlement strikes him when someone else fails or suffers injury.=Personality: Naud is naïve, and a dangerous combination of stupid and lucky. He charges into everything head first, with no regard for consequences to himself or his companions. History has taught him that he will not only be fine, but likely will come out ahead.=Motivation: He buys into his inflated reputation fully. He has deluded himself into behaving as a great ship's pilot and explorer and is always ready for a new adventure. =Background: Naud was once the captain of an unimportant vessel. Sailing back from a trading outpost, the ship came upon the lost island of Souldust. Through his careless actions, Naud unleashed the island's horrors and inadvertently killed his crew. He fled and made his way home through dumb luck. Upon his return, he became famous for his discovery and was given a royal title and a much bigger ship. Since then, Sir Naud has embarked on several dangerous expeditions, and returned from each one as the sole survivor.=Traits: (PV) Famous, pilot, royalty=295*=Barley Trowbridge=Garrulous Innkeeper="Welcome to my inn! Relax by the fire while I fetch you a spiced ale. Tell me a tale, and the drink's on me."=Appearance: People expect innkeepers to be portly, but Trowbridge is slender. His eyes are surrounded by laughter lines, and he makes up for his lack of girth with a thick, wooly brown beard that's wider than his head.=Roleplaying: Trowbridge comes off like a kindly old uncle, with a ready smile and a story for every occasion. He's an exceptionally good listener.=Personality: Outgoing, friendly, warm, and incredibly hard to dislike, Trowbridge is generous and charitable without being naïve. Underneath all that, he can be quite ruthless.=Motivation: He likes to be the center of attention. If he scents a good story, he'll do whatever it takes to ferret it out-and he's always on the lookout for saleable information.=Background: Trowbridge (Barley to his friends) is the innkeeper who knows everyone and everything. Garrulous by nature, he's immediately likable. It's not an act, but nor is Trowbridge exactly what he appears. He gathers information from all corners of the kingdom, gently squeezing it out of his guests and selling it to those he likes or respects; the fee is often an exchange of information. He's no stranger to skullduggery and smuggling, and he puts the bonds of friendship over the law. If the PCs need something done, and if Trowbridge likes them, chances are he can help.=Traits: (MR) Business, charming, criminal, merchant, scholar=296*=Gendarme Olivia=Judgmental Sheriff="Your needs are irrelevant to the situation. Hunger does not justify theft. Come. Our rulers will decide your fate. Save your pleas for them if you seek mercy, for I have none for you."=Appearance: Short, but with a powerful frame and a large bust, Gendarme Olivia wears her immaculate uniform with pride. Her ivory skin and short golden curls may give her a childish appearance, but her dark brown eyes beam with fervor for her work. A large iron mace dangles off of her hip.=Roleplaying: Rigid and always at attention, she has a sharp tone of command in her voice. Gendarme interrogates others with short and direct questions. She often quotes the written laws of the land verbatim from memory.=Personality: Gendarme Olivia is polite in her manners but terse in her delivery. She is always on guard for any possible mischief, and the closest that she comes to relaxing is competing against others through sports.=Motivation: Seen by many as uncaring and stoic, she is actually intensely concerned with the well-being of others. Yet, the drive to ensure that those within her jurisdiction are safe is the very thing that disconnects her from others socially.=Background: Olivia was the ninth child of a local sheriff. Her older siblings (all brothers) refused to follow in their father's footsteps. Only Olivia was determined to continue her father's legacy.=Traits: (PB) Counselor, notorious, police=297*=Esmikri Induri=Secret Policeman="In my father's day ‘taxing' pilgrims was an abomination. Now it's common as tithe."=Appearance: He is older, slightly stooped, with a full head of gray hair and calloused hands. Esmikri dresses to his role, often as an old traveler making a pilgrimage.=Roleplaying: Esmikri is the quietest member of a conversation, often bringing up topics and stepping back to focus attention on others, taking long pauses, or making disconcerting conversational leaps.=Personality: He's a dedicated man, a seeker of truth. He believes in the emperor, but the injustices he's seen weigh heavily on his heart.=Motivation: The empire he loves would collapse if not for the constant efforts of the inspectorate. He's tired, but he can't allow creeping corruption and factionalism to undermine the empire while he still breathes.=Background: Raised in a cloister until he was nine, Esmikri's brilliant observations marked him for imperial service. He was sent to boarding school, where he studied imperial law for seven years. After testing, Esmikri joined the emperor's secret police and began watching the local justice. He's done so mostly unobtrusively, visiting the cities and talking with common folk. His reports have led to several noblemen being chastised by the bureaucracy-one by the emperor himself!=Traits: (SM) Focal, genius, mysterious, police, white collar=298*=Celile=Foul-Tempered Dancer="Name? I cans give you a name. You shoulds have to come to me first."=Appearance: Heavy cosmetics accentuate her large, brown eyes and sandy hair. She moves like a prowling animal and slides comfortably into the laps of her patrons. Her perfume is intoxicating, if not a little overwhelming.=Roleplaying: Her speech is demure and sophisticated, though Celile is prone to mispronounce simple words and tries to act smarter than she really is. She has a heavy accent.=Personality: Stubborn and arrogant, she's in over her head, trying to give the appearance of being upscale. She's most honest with herself when she dances-and does so quite well.=Motivation: Celile is working to elevate her status; she feels that she deserves more.=Background: A professional dancer by trade, Celile earns honest coin by entertaining men and women as they unwind and let their guard down. This affords her the opportunity to pick up small bits of information. Thinking this makes her an information broker of sorts, she tries to peddle her knowledge for favors and power. Rarely does it work, and consequently, Celile has a large chip on her shoulder. Two small children wait for her at home, the byproduct of poor decisions early in her career. She wants more but is trapped by circumstance. Celile earns an honest wage dancing; she absolutely refuses to whore out her body. She knows her big break must be coming.=Traits: (DM) Entertainment, power hungry, white collar=299*=Sir Vilhelm of Strawbourg=Unscrupulous Knight="Of course chivalry and honor are important, but only when you are winning!"=Appearance: Vilhelm is a handsome knight in gleaming armor. His hair is immaculate and frames his square-jawed face. A short goatee surrounds his roguish grin.=Roleplaying: He speaks and acts as if he were the noblest of knights. He is well versed in the local laws of chivalry and is fond of quoting them when appropriate.=Personality: Vilhelm presents himself as the model of chivalry, but it is nothing more than a mask hiding a cunning mind in search of an opportunity.=Motivation: He likes to win, no matter the cost.=Background: For the most part, Vilhelm is what he represents. He comes from a noble family and is an excellent, well-bred knight. He is one of the best warriors of his generation and shouldn't need to resort to underhanded tactics. Unfortunately, it's a bit of a character flaw. If Vilhelm feels that there is even a chance he might lose, then he won't hesitate to cheat. Vilhelm's allies take comfort in the fact that he won't cheat them, but his actions may ruffle feathers amongst more honorable companions. Vilhelm always justifies his actions as necessary to attain his allies' goals, and takes great offense at being called out for underhandedness.=Traits: (WC) Notorious, political, warrior=300*=Neva Ambrose, "The Red Sash"=Vengeful Folk Hero="You serve an unjust king. Now, forfeit your purse or forfeit your life."=Appearance: The Red Sash's costume consists of a black tricorn hat, hair tucked into a headscarf mask, satin blouse, trousers, overcoat, and riding boots. Clad in black from head to foot, save for a red sash holding a rapier at her waist, she stands in profile-mysterious and forbidding. Otherwise, Neva is plain-looking and wears a serving-girl's apron.=Roleplaying: The Red Sash speaks as little as possible, and uses a low, rasping voice as part of her disguise.=Personality: She cares little for her rising status as a folk hero. Songs and stories of her exploits are well and good, but her appetite is for revenge. She's not doing this to lead an uprising, but she's beginning to realize that she'll need allies.=Motivation: Neva wants repayment for the crown's injustice in blood.=Background: She already had no love for the crown because of the stiff taxes placed on the neighborhood businesses, including her father's tavern. But she swore her revenge when her young beau was drafted into the king's service and died under the command of some foppish gentleman who ordered him on an unwarranted adventure. Now she rides the King's Road, exacting a bloody toll on agents of the crown. She periodically switches mounts, so she can't be identified by her horse.=Traits: (TT) Mysterious, notorious, stealthy=301*=Ian Ross=Fraudulent Archivist="If you just read the scrolls, you'll see it didn't happen that way at all."=Appearance: Ian is a skeletal young man with shocking blond hair who dresses in classical style.=Roleplaying: Despite being dour and unresponsive, Ian often smirks at some private joke. He listens and watches intently for anything he can use to his advantage.=Personality: Though he hides it well, Ian has a complete and utter disregard for the integrity of his job. He derives perverse gratification from altering the records in his charge for no reason other than his own amusement.=Motivation: He loves causing subtle chaos for chaos' sake.=Background: As a scribe, Ian maneuvered into a job in political records via unscrupulous behavior. He has an extensive network of politicians and functionaries paying him hush money, which gives him an unexpected amount of influence. He isn't above selling information or altering records for money if he thinks it will further his schemes. He practically drools for the day when he will have unlimited and unquestioned access to the archives-he plans to rewrite history completely.=Traits: (MN) Abhorrent, academic, criminal, focal, political, power hungry, scholar=302*="Revolution"=Political Radical="Hear me, good people! ‘Politics' is a compound word. ‘Poli' means ‘many' and, as you fine citizens know, ticks are bloodsucking parasites!"=Appearance: Dressed in outlandish clothes mocking the royal symbol, Revolution is young, androgynous, and wild-eyed.=Roleplaying: Driven by her cause, Revolution uses manic gestures and powerful rhetoric.=Personality: Outside of her fierce desire to tear down all rulers, there is very little left of the original actress and acrobat, Revy.=Motivation: Revolution seeks to collapse the rule of all tyrants, by any means necessary.=Background: During a year-long tour with a troupe of traveling entertainers, Revy and one of the comedy minstrels, Billicks, fell madly in love. Towards the end of their tour, Billicks sang an impromptu number mildly poking fun at the local ruler. That night, the ruler's men took the entire troupe prisoner. They were tortured for the next three days and released into the wild, with none of their gear. Only Revy made it out alive, and she swore revenge on all rulers. Nobody knows who or what answered her oath, but despite the efforts of many, she has never been captured. She led a bloody revolt against the local lord who killed her troupe, and has been a thorn in the side of those in power ever since. Revolution has penned satirical songs, started vicious rumors, upstaged popular performances, and incited riots in her crusade.=Traits: (KS) Entertainment, notorious, stealthy, zealot=303*=Lady Loran Siroth =Beautiful Socialite="Another threat at the border? I'm sure it's a few drunken goblins that got lost. Can we wrap this up and head to the social now?"=Appearance: Loran is beautiful in every way, with a voluptuous body and long, flowing, chestnut hair.=Roleplaying: She rolls her head around when talking about anything serious. She laughs a bit too loudly, and flips her hair when she is socializing and more relaxed =Personality: Loran is a dilettante, with little passion for anything serious. She has a sense of humor that disarms and charms in social circumstances, but it warps into scathing sarcasm in serious situations. She is in her true element at any kind of social function, where she is a natural entertainer and host.=Motivation: Loran is a minor noble who desires to move up the social ladder and become the most popular host in the kingdom. She looks for any angle that might improve her position.=Background: Lady Siroth was born to a minor noble house. She attended the best schools, and earned a minor government post where she collects reports from adventurers about monster encounters to determine if there are any threats. She only halfheartedly performs her duties, counting down the time until the next party. She is a great source of information, and, with a little flattery, she can reveal all sorts of details about monsters sighted and ruins found.=Traits: (PV) Beautiful, dilettante, humorous, political=304*=Uzumaia Three-Eyes=Greedy Treasure Hunter="You know, it would be a shame to let this map to the Tomb of the Unstoppable Death-Juggernaut go to waste…"=Appearance: Uzumaia has deep brown skin, flinty eyes, and the wrinkled, weathered face of someone who's spent a lifetime outdoors. A third eye is tattooed in the middle of her forehead.=Roleplaying: She pauses before she speaks, weighing her response before ever uttering a word. When she's thinking, she twists a lock of hair around one finger.=Personality: While Uzumaia used to adventure for the thrill of it, now it's all about the money. She's comfortably well off and could retire, but she always wants another haul.=Motivation: At this point, Uzumaia is motivated purely by greed. She knows she's too old for adventuring, but the need for treasure has become a compulsion. She is not so unscrupulous as to betray her friends for money, though.=Background: Uzumaia is a treasure hunter who should have retired some years ago, but who's always chasing "just one more" score. Past her prime, she nonetheless possesses the accumulated wisdom, good fortune, and keen instincts of a lifelong adventurer-if not the vitality, toughness, or combat prowess she used to display. Her third-eye tattoo is the product of a lost bet, and represents her seemingly magical ability to avoid danger just moments before something horrible happens (not always to the benefit of her companions, though). She's an expert trapsmith and a middling fighter.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, outdoorsman, stealthy=305*=Baron Von Hent=Crippled Nobleman="My people…pity me…because of my scars. Their pains…are far greater…than the burden…of my visage. I must…tend…to their needs."=Appearance: Cloaked in fine furs and royal robes, Baron Von Hent radiates nobility. His face appears skeletal due to intense burns and scarring, but is hidden behind a fine silver mask. The baron carries an ornate silver staff with him at all times.=Roleplaying: He speaks softly and breathes heavily because of his injuries. Due to his shortness of breath, he uses his hands and gestures to imply meaning whenever possible, instead of speaking.=Personality: Baron Von Hent is a brave soul, and he is grateful that his position gives him the opportunity to serve his people.=Motivation: The baron is a patriot, and his love for his people is second only to his love for the kingdom itself.=Background: Von Hent's family has ruled these lands for centuries. His family raised him to treat his people with fairness and to have an open heart. As a young boy, he learned that the nobility must secure the lands from all threats for the commoners. This lesson was put to the test nearly a decade ago when he defended his people and lands from demonic invaders. The baron was nearly killed in battle as the enemy pummeled him with hellfire, but his convictions were so strong that he continued to fight with unrelenting fury until victory was secured.=Traits: (PB) Hideous, royalty, warrior=306*=Salvestro di Carzetti=Ruthless Patron="I possess many beautiful things. But it is sculpture that is the most sublime. To make from a hunk of rock something that is seemingly alive, that, my friends, is as close as we mortals will come to our Creator-who it is said, fashioned us from clay. No?"=Appearance: His face is remarkably flat, even expressionless, for an otherwise vigorous man in his later years. He wears fine clothes befitting a merchant prince.=Roleplaying: Salvestro cultivates an air of magnanimity, and is generous with his praise and rewards to those who give exceptional service.=Personality: In politics and business di Carzetti is absolutely ruthless. He is always busy, and is always surrounded by secretaries, investors, or emissaries. However, he is always willing to pardon an interruption to advise an artisan or to receive an update from an adventuring company.=Motivation: In addition to guiding his house to greater prosperity and influence, he sees art as a legacy that will endure for generations.=Background: He is head of a family that has built a powerful merchant house on banking and the trade of the purple goods favored by royalty. He started a new tradition of being a patron to the arts by commissioning works of art, music, and history. To complement his collection of commissioned artworks, he sponsors adventuring companies to acquire lost treasures from ruins and forgotten dungeons. This flirtation with using adventurers is a sidelight, one he gives only cursory attention.=Traits: (TT) Business, famous, wealthy=307*=Hvarri the Peeper=Incredulous Anthropologist="You people do what? You can't be serious."=Appearance: Hvarri has a clearly foreign bone structure and appearance, and, though he tries to adapt his wardrobe to his current location, he often mismatches styles or leaves telltale signs of his native culture.=Roleplaying: To gather the stories his people crave, Hvarri observes everything carefully-even things most would consider inconsequential exchanges. He's not above asking questions if the meaning of something is unclear, and he immerses himself in seemingly everyday activities, tasks, and experiences.=Personality: Hvarri is eager to immerse himself in unfamiliar cultures. They're both incredibly interesting and treasured. He wants to try as many new things as he can. The more exciting the story it will make, the better the adventure.=Motivation: His people value stories of other places for both the knowledge and the entertainment, so Hvarri strives to collect as many as possible. If, in the course of his research, he can spread his faith and help others he will happily do so.=Background: Hvarri is a young shaman for his people, embarking upon his final training pilgrimage. However, the ridiculous things other cultures do often leaves him nonplussed and slack-jawed. That said, he's here only to observe, not to judge.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, eccentric, humorous, impoverished, magical, primal, religious, scholar=308*=Isabella the Bonespeaker=Seductive Shaman="Yes, come in! There is always room for guests during the ancestor festival."=Appearance: Isabella has an attractive figure and strong bearing, often wearing elaborate dresses and skull face paint.=Roleplaying: She is seductive and tantalizing, but her accoutrements and mannerisms can be unsettling.=Personality: Isabella is generally friendly and alluring, but acts ferociously if the need arises.=Motivation: She holds to her duty, seeking to bridge the worlds of the living and dead.=Background: Isabella was raised in the tradition of her village's Bonespeakers, communicating with the dead and using magic to manipulate corpses. During the ancestor's festival, Isabella raises her arms and calls forth the spirits of the ancestors, who flood into the bodies of those attending and walk amongst the living once more. Isabella's magic cannot be denied, and she is sought out by many wishing speak with the dead. When her village was besieged, she called upon the ancestors to raise their bones from the graves and defend them. While her necromancy is not a dark and vile thing to her village, it is unsettling to outsiders. It is not often enough to overwhelm the appeal of her voluptuous body and seductive charms, and she has constant suitors; some she takes to bed when they intrigue her. She often unsettles people because of her sometimes uncouth mannerisms and lack of remorse, a side effect of her connection to the realm of the dead.=Traits: (JA) Beautiful, magical, occult=309*=Adjudicator Jerome Dalton=Critical Judge="What do you have to say for yourself?"=Appearance: Piercing black eyes stand out against his weathered face. His mustache is slender and well trimmed. He wears a black frock coat over a buttoned high-collar white shirt.=Roleplaying: He has impeccable posture, leaving his hands face-down upon the table or clasped, quietly observing. He speaks deliberately and with conviction, often with an undertone of scorn. He shows little emotion and bites back disdain.=Personality: He is quick to pass judgment both at work and in life. Years on the bench have left him with a cynical attitude and little faith in people.=Motivation: The law binds civilization together and must be respected. Everything is black and white and when issues cannot otherwise be solved, the adjudicator must preside. It is a heavy burden of service he carries.=Background: From humble beginnings, Jerome sought to make a difference. He saw law as a way to enrich society. The years have traded hope for cynicism and the cases he has presided over have taken their toll. Yet the adjudicator continues to strive to be impartial. In some cases, the law may find the defendant not guilty by way of a technicality. Officially, his hands are tied. Fortunately the adjudicator has some means to see that justice is in fact meted out, and employs adventurers with like minds to assist. Many owe him favors.=Traits: (DM) Focal, political=310*=Lady Arielle Banforth=Scholarly Princess="The ancient Thessefallians had a similar problem in their day: ‘Alium quinctus denii.'"=Appearance: Proudly wearing a well-draped linen shirt bearing the arms of her house quartered with the king's, Arielle moves with confident determination. Her face is untouched by cosmetics and framed by pixie-like hair. She has blue eyes that twinkle as her softly mannered voice lists fault after fault.=Roleplaying: Arielle is of royal descent and knows her brilliance, and thus only the king gets deference. She uses obscure proverbs and foreign quotes liberally, aiming for mathematical precision. She is impatient with interruption, visibly bristling at such rudeness.=Personality: Arielle is a studious woman, with unique access to rare books and obscure philosophers. Her passion is knowledge; she hopes to make several valuable contributions.=Motivation: Arielle inherited her father's love of knowledge, and had few enough responsibilities as a younger daughter that she was able to pursue it. After intimidating her first marriage prospects, she has been left alone to her true calling.=Background: A niece to the old king, Arielle was raised as a princess-but is far enough out of the line of succession that her children would not have the same experience. She was her father's joy, the scholar that he was too engrossed with politics to be. Her sharp tongue and deep education intimidated her marriage prospects. Today she recovers lost knowledge and champions broader schooling to the king.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, royalty, scholar, white collar=311*=Andrelle Ironbrow=Grim Dragon Slayer="No one alive knows dragons as well as I do. When I'm through killing them all, I can start trying to forget what I know."=Appearance: Andrelle has medium-brown skin and muscular arms, and one of her eyes doesn't open fully (a past wound). Her body is covered in scars, as is her scorched plate armor.=Roleplaying: Andrelle is grim and cynical, particularly about the hubris of adventurers and the notion of free will.=Personality: Once an optimist, Andrelle inhabits a world that seems darker than it did before. She's paranoid, pessimistic, and sardonic at the best of times.=Motivation: Andrelle wants every dragon in the world dead, even the "good" ones. If she's not on the hunt, she is restless.=Background: Though a fearless dragon hunter now, until just a few years ago, Andrelle was a red dragon's slave. Ensorcelled into doing its bidding, she lived as a slave for more than a decade, watching party after party of adventurers face the dragon and be destroyed. She wasn't treated poorly, but she was forced to act as the dragon's scout and bait-and she knew her mind wasn't fully her own. When a band of heroes finally slew her master, she dedicated herself to killing dragons. She pursues her quarry with a single-mindedness that can be frightening to witness. Anyone with information on a dragon's whereabouts or weaknesses will have her ear; anyone hunting one can count on her spear, as well.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, scholar, warrior, zealot=312*=Professor Tithus Corelian=Proud Wizard="I am not particularly worried about how long it takes; I do not want to get it wrong."=Appearance: Tithus sports a skinny, well-groomed, russet beard. He always stands tall.=Roleplaying: He is slow and controlled in his work, but impatient with others' demands. He gives off an aura of confidence that backs up his vast intellect.=Personality: His attention to detail makes Tithus very proud and assured of himself.=Motivation: Tithus devoted his entire youth to learning countless obscurities and magical practices, and now he uses all of his skills to expand the reach of academia.=Background: Professor Tithus possesses a rare type of intellect, one that allows him almost perfect recall. He fell in love with learning at a young age and proceeded to pursue every academic avenue open to him. Quickly memorizing all of the mundane academic books presented to him, he turned his eye and sponge-like brain to more complex magical pursuits, excelling at those as well and becoming a much-loved professor. While his memory is impressive, it is his careful and cautious approach that has brought him the most success. Few of his experiments have ever gone wrong, as he takes the time to verify his formulae and double check his work. This annoys some, but none can argue with the results. Professor Tithus is not very adaptable, and often scoffs at untested and new advances, preferring the tried and true methods.=Traits: (JA) Academic, genius, magical=313*=Sister Aileen =Weak-Willed Priest="We could go back…or we could go forward. I don't know. Can someone else decide?"=Appearance: Aileen is a warrior priest. She wears a fitted suit of chainmail with a tabard that displays her deity's symbol. She's an attractive woman with a slight scar across her nose. She projects a stoic, intimidating image.=Roleplaying: At first, Aileen seems very agreeable. Unfortunately, it becomes evident rather quickly that she always agrees with whomever she is speaking, even if she's held opposite opinions in the past-and even if the past was one person ago.=Personality: She hates avoidable conflicts. She just doesn't feel that any of her opinions are strong enough to be worth a fight; she'd rather capitulate. Aileen's sole exception is her faith, which she'll follow no matter who challenges it.=Motivation: She wants to keep the peace.=Background: Aileen never really had control over her own life; from the time she was a child everyone made her decisions for her. She was raised to be the perfect wife amongst eligible suitors, but the day before her "coming out" party, she panicked. There were so many suitors to choose from and she didn't want to risk disappointing any of them. The only way out of it was to dedicate her life to faith and she took vows that evening. Aileen's superiors trained her to help those in need, which she does without question.=Traits: (WC) Religious, saintly, warrior=314*=Eleanor Devotian=Scheming Businesswoman="Each of us has a duty to advance the fortunes of this house."=Appearance: Eleanor no longer has the beauty of youth, but she possesses attractive matronly features. Still of child-bearing age, she is likely to be at some stage of pregnancy when encountered. A trio of handmaidens always attends her.=Roleplaying: Her most joyous expressions are saved for seeing her children, or when being entertained by poets or musicians. Otherwise, she presents an even countenance.=Personality: The wheels in her head never stop turning. All people, save her children, are pieces on a chess board-to be moved, coaxed, or toppled as needed to elevate the status of those she loves.=Motivation: She assumes the burden of successfully maneuvering political waters to promote the fortunes of the merchant houses of her family and her husband.=Background: She cultivates her own network of informants, important eyes and ears when pregnancy hinders her mobility. She rewards those allies she is most dependent upon. As eldest daughter, she also was raised with the purpose of marrying into a greater house, which happened. She considers her husband honorable, insofar as there is honor between competing merchant houses, and dutiful. She has given birth to two sons and a daughter and there is another child on the way.=Traits: (TT) Business, charming, power hungry=315*=Maximus the Mysterious=Arcane Con Artist="Gather round! Watch carefully as I... What's that smell? Ladies and gentlemen: the illusion of the flaming robe!"=Appearance: Maximus is a wizard from the tip of his pointy hat to the bottom of his road-muddied gown.=Roleplaying: He would love for everyone to believe he's an impressive wizard, but he's more of a giant ham. His booming wizard voice and arcane hand gestures are all public performances that he drops behind closed doors.=Personality: Half confidence man, half thief, and half-assed wizard, Maximus is wholly a loser. He puts on a good show to the contrary. In reality he's tired, frustrated, and just wants a bath, a smoke, and some warm stew.=Motivation: If he can't find gainful employment befitting a wizard of his apparent stature, or a band of adventurers who'll let him stand in the rear of the party and not do much for his share of the treasure, Maximus will settle for fleecing people out of as much pocket change as he can manage before skipping town.=Background: It turned out that wizarding was a lot harder than Maximus assumed when he became an apprentice, and he never learned more than the most simple incantations and illusions. With little ability to rely on, he lives the life of a traveling wizard, selling potions, love spells, and lucky charms along the way. Some of them might even work.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, humorous, impoverished, mysterious, magical=316*=Wulf Greymane=Feral Scout="Awroooooooooooo…<snarls and growls> you die!"=Appearance: Wulf is a wild-eyed man in his late thirties. He has a shaggy mane of graying hair but keeps himself clean-shaven. He's sharpened his teeth, and he usually wears gloves with sharp claws on the end. He rarely bathes.=Roleplaying: He is more animal than human. He scratches himself constantly and prefers to eat on the floor. He curls into a ball at night. He has a limited vocabulary that he punctuates with wolf-like grunts and howls.=Personality: With the instincts and perspective of an animal, Wulf is loyal to his friends and always obeys the alpha of the group.=Motivation: He is interested in survival and the safety of his current "pack."=Background: Wulf was discovered by a band of adventurers in a deep forest. He appeared to be in his early twenties but had no memory of living amongst humans. He considered a pack of wolves to be his family and could not speak to humans until one of the adventurers used magic to communicate with him. Wulf refused to leave his family until a monstrous horde, the ones that the adventurers had been tracking, slaughtered them. Wulf helped the adventurers defeat the horde and decided to live amongst humans. He makes a living now as a scout for groups trying to travel through his forest.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, impoverished, outdoorsman, primal, stealthy, warrior=317*=Peregrine Kestrel=Crazy Pilot="Didja see that dive? I bet five I can pull out even lower!"=Appearance: This petite, athletic woman with windswept hair and a goggle tan never seems to stop moving or talking.=Roleplaying: She's impatient; nothing ever happens fast enough. Her speech is rapid-fire, and she's always cracking jokes.=Personality: An adrenaline junkie, she doesn't seem to take anything but her flying seriously.=Motivation: She's always been driven to be the best pilot that has ever flown, to do more than anyone else, and to do it faster. Recently, she's developed a death wish.=Background: With both parents in mounted aviation (and being named as she was), Peregrine was born into the saddle. Raised in her parents' squadron, by the time of her first official class she'd had more time aloft than some of her instructors. Her reckless attitude and quick mouth have earned her plenty of disciplinary action, but her raw talent keeps her flying more often than not. She holds a number of unofficial records, and is always pushing the envelope to see how far and how fast she can go. Her parents' recent death on a scouting expedition seems to have increased her passion for flying. Her normally devil-may-care personality has covered it up so far, but lately she seems to be actively courting death.=Traits: (KS) Humorous, military, pilot=318*=Naomi Wyerrn=Impulsive War-Wizard="There's nothing a firebolt can't solve!"=Appearance: Wearing golden robes trimmed in red, her own flaming red hair is tied back in the martial style. Smelling of brimstone and sulfur, her hands are dirty, her nails chipped and torn. She stands taught and ready for action, reaching for the pouch of components at her side.=Roleplaying: Naomi constantly interrupts and acts on the first conclusion she leaps to. Fortune favors the bold!=Personality: A firebrand-literally-Naomi doesn't understand "can't." This drives her to excel but keeps others at a distance. She respects those who follow their convictions with action. To most, Naomi is off-putting with her bold honesty and frank observations. She respects-and follows-authority.=Motivation: She strives to be better than the rest, to prove the impossible is possible, and to show her detractors that they're wrong.=Background: Naomi never fit in within her social circles; attending court and masques bored her to tears. A call to action burned in her blood, and when she came of age, she spent the majority of her inheritance pursuing magical art and instruction. Told she was too old and didn't have the aptitude, this merely spurred her on. Having joined the Wizard's Corps of the militia, few know of her wealthy background-and she prefers to keep it that way. Secretly, her family hopes this obsession will pass. Her fledgling ability sometimes endangers her and her companions-and she has the burns to prove it.=Traits: (DM) Magical, military, wealthy=319*=Rebekah Dunwaith=Immortal Silversmith="With age, silver tarnishes, but nothing else beckons bright as our lady above."=Appearance: Rebekah is attractive, with dark black hair to her waist held in bejeweled leather thongs, and a tendency to wear simple white robes. =Roleplaying: She's normally quiet, thoughtful, and precise-quite unusual in someone so young. Talking about art brings her to life. When she's not careful, she'll casually mention what a person's grandparents were like as children.=Personality: Normally calm and withdrawn, Rebekah is driven by the assault on her cult. She seems like a rock poised on the edge of a cliff: waiting…waiting…and then exploding into action.=Motivation: After centuries of quiet silver-craft and reflection far from society, Rebekah has been forced into action in a way she never practiced. Now she's active in the world, trying to track down the killers.=Background: Rebekah was born into a society with ancient traditions. After years of intense study, she was initiated into the highest rank of the cult at age 27. As part of the ceremony, she drank an elixir of timelessness and swore to uphold their traditions. Three centuries later, a force of men assaulted their gathering and slew nearly everyone. Rebekah barely escaped. She now focuses on tracking down those responsible and finding her scattered friends, if any survived.=Traits: (SM) Ancient, artist, religious, police=320*=Sister Elora ("Mallory")=Kinky Nun="We all have a vice that shames us. Let us not have our struggles poison our good works."=Appearance: As Sister Elora, she wears religious garments that reveal no flesh other than her face. As Mallory, she wears a silk dress that shows off her figure.=Roleplaying: Sister Elora is the epitome of manners and restraint. As Mallory, she is flirtatious and sexually suggestive.=Personality: When in public, either persona behaves exactly as others expect, but in private she cries and prays for guidance.=Motivation: She truly wants to help those in need through the good word and philanthropy of the church, but she has repressed her nature for too long.=Background: Raised to serve only her faith, she quickly ascended to the highest levels of both religious and political institutions. Her unceasing, selfless devotion eventually caused a breakdown, and she disappeared for several days. Just as suddenly, she returned, vibrant and again working diligently to help others. What no one knows is that she created a new identity as a prostitute during that time, and she now lives a double life. For weeks at a time, Sister Elora will tirelessly serve the public good, but for a few days, she will become "Mallory," living a life of vice until her guilt and shame overwhelm her. She is tearing herself apart with her dual life.=Traits: (PB) Charming, political, religious, saintly=321*=Avanda Marks=Sultry Actress="How can you say he's wrong for me? He's so rugged and handsome. When we're together, it's like fire! So what if he's a bit of scamp. No need to fuss. I can take care of myself, you know."=Appearance: Her jade eyes smolder and are framed by jet-black tresses. A young woman in her twenties, she favors colorful flowing blouses and skirts that accentuate her sweeping arms and legs.=Roleplaying: She has a flirtatious swirl in her step, a sultry presence, and a breathless way of speaking.=Personality: Her natural beauty and easy charm win her the attentions of many men, but it is the combustible and destructive romances she is drawn to. She has a knack for misinterpreting motives, spurning fair-minded friends and falling in with the worst sorts, drawn by the excitement they offer. For those genuinely concerned for her, she can be exasperating and mercurial. After being taken advantage of, she runs back to those whose help and advice she disregarded.=Motivation: She wants to be the star attraction, and to gain all the attention and affection that goes with it.=Background: The bored daughter of a cooper, she became enamored with the life of a player and struck out on her own. In the downtown theater district, she is making her way through lusty pursuits amid a theatrical company comprised of scoundrels. Occasionally a protector makes a gallant effort to shield her from opportunists-a gesture she inevitably rebuffs.=Traits: (TT) Beautiful, entertainment=322*=Bannon Foxwhistle=Hedonistic Sage="I'm too sore to head to the library right now, but pass me that wineskin and I'll be right as rain by tonight."=Appearance: With sparkling green eyes and a lean physique honed by hours of "exercise," Bannon has to beat potential lovers-men and women alike-away with a stick. After a night of revelry, he's usually wearing someone else's clothes.=Roleplaying: Whenever possible, Bannon has a book in one hand and a wineglass in the other. He undresses almost everyone he meets with his eyes, and will shamelessly proposition anyone he finds attractive.=Personality: Bannon is charming, likable, outgoing, friendly, and unabashedly sexual.=Motivation: A hedonist through-and-through, Bannon seeks out pleasure, generally in the form of sex, alcohol, or reading a musty old book, at every opportunity.=Background: A sage, of sorts, Bannon finds equal enjoyment in the pleasures of knowledge and the pleasures of the flesh. His appetite for both is voracious, uninhibited, and usually on shameless display. He's a font of information on a wide variety of topics, reads multiple languages, and forgets fear if there's a chance to learn something new. Too flighty to get a real job, Bannon cries out for patronage. PCs who keep him in women, men, and wine, and who give him a chance to explore ancient ruins from time to time, will find him to be a fast friend and a valuable resource.=Traits: (MR) Academic, beautiful, charming, eccentric, humorous, primal, scholar=323*=Armand Patrella=Underground Financier="You wish my help? You agree to my terms."=Appearance: His portly frame is well-groomed, and his fancy clothing speaks of his affluence.=Roleplaying: Armand always loans money if he can see the profit in his rank or his pocket. He overplays his mannerisms, mimicking the nobles he wishes to join.=Personality: He is jovial and pretentious, but becomes cruel when he doesn't get his way.=Motivation: Armand seeks profit and status in society.=Background: Nobles are always in need of a small loan to keep them well-dressed and in style, and Armand is always in need of nobles who owe him. Armand began as a financier when he was left a small inheritance by his uncle. Armand realized this was a path to his true goal-becoming one of the nobles he so admired. Amassing a fortune through targeted loans, he learned to deal with all levels of society but quickly found that illegal ventures were often the most profitable to his pocketbook. Armand has never seen what he does as wrong, merely a unique route to power and status. While he never gets his hands dirty, he is not hesitant to call in favors from the underworld. He is often willing to fund an adventuring party who might bring back cultural artifacts on behalf of a noble benefactor, if he can profit from the deal.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, merchant, political, wealthy=324*=Victor Calman=Deception Expert="Annoying? I'm told that's my best quality, actually."=Appearance: Messy dark hair, constantly being pushed aside, reveals bright blue eyes and a disarming smile. A blue brocade waistcoat accentuates his thin frame.=Roleplaying: Victor uses flattery and a gilded tongue to lure people in, then closes the door shut with a direct observation that strikes to the core.=Personality: Playful and quick on his feet, Victor is a skilled negotiator who thrills in verbal foreplay. His greatest skill is reading people for deception. He loves to be the center of attention and will grandstand without provocation. His bluntness throws people off and makes them even easier to read.=Motivation: Victor strives for advancement of his skills and longs for others to recognize his value. Most often that means getting the best deal, but more importantly, that means being right. He's never been wrong about a person.=Background: From his father, a notorious con artist, Victor learned relevant skills and inherited a gift for spinning lies. He most often, however, uses his ability to detect deception in others. He's made a good living but is always anxious for the next challenge. Victor is well-read and uses science along with instinct to hone his understanding of people. By confronting individuals with their falsehoods he is able to dig deeper into their motivation. He's a bit of a rogue at heart, something else he inherited from his father.=Traits: (DM) Academic, charming, power hungry=325*=Ardon Blackwood=Lecherous Patron="Art is beauty, and beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Make them see the beauty and I'll make sure that they know your name."=Appearance: Ardon is tall and handsome with blond hair and blue eyes. He wears nothing but the finest tailored clothes. Every day, he pins a freshly cut flower to his coat.=Roleplaying: Ardon compliments ladies whenever they are present, and continues to pay close attention to the prettier ones. When pondering a thought, he sniffs the flower on his coat.=Personality: He is a womanizer and a scoundrel. When discussing matters of business, however, Ardon is completely professional.=Motivation: He wants to be known, loved, and adored by the art community.=Background: The bastard child of a nobleman, Ardon and his mother still receive financial support from him. Ardon was sent to the finest of academies, but never bothered to apply himself in any skill or trade, choosing instead to focus his attentions on his female classmates. Initially lured to art by all the young models, he discovered (to his great surprise) a passion for painting. He showed no skill for it, though, and for the first time, Ardon discovered something that he could not achieve via money or his looks. Devastated, he concluded that if he could not be a talented artist then he would be the one who discovers them. Now, Ardon is one of the up-and-coming among patrons of the arts.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, business, dilettante=326*=The Madame of Whispers=Nosy Information Broker="Come and sit. I have many ears, which hear many things. But before you ask your question, you must first share a secret with me."=Appearance: It is possible that once, eons ago, she may have been attractive, but now she is a desiccated scarecrow. She wears long robes with small baubles woven into the fabric.=Roleplaying: She speaks in whispers-soft whispers when she is calm, and harsh whispers when she is animated. She looks around as if someone is listening, and at times drifts off as if she hears someone talking to her.=Personality: The Madame is intensely nosy; she cannot resist prying details out of anyone she has a conversation with. She is drawn to anyone who engages in gossip. She thinly feigns patience when trying to learn a secret from someone.=Motivation: She collects and brokers the secrets she learns to gain arcane powers from the spirit world. These powers are used in part to keep her living past a natural age.=Background: The Madame started her career as a minor mage. She discovered a ritual for contacting a powerful spirit that thrived on the secrets that people keep. Since then she has created a complex web of informants who collect and pass secrets to her, which she brokers for additional power. Adventurers know the Madame of Whispers as the ultimate source of information, if you're willing to pay her price.=Traits: (PV) Ancient, business, magical=327*=Adell Stormrunner=Stoic Motivator="We will hold them here, and no further!"=Appearance: A wizened woman, she has long, silver hair that is tied at the nape and splays over her shoulder. Surprisingly fit for her age, she wears weathered leather armor covered in scores of nicks and cuts. Adell leans on a gnarled walking stick.=Roleplaying: She listens intently and speaks firmly, pausing often to regain her breath. After hearing all arguments, she takes time to make a thoughtful decision. Adell doesn't lose her cool.=Personality: Experience has tempered Adell to be strong in the face of adversity. Both stoic and reserved, years of adventuring have strengthened her resolve and evened her temper. She will never back down or give up in the face of defeat. Her plans reflect her philosophy of attacking where least expected.=Motivation: She believes there will be time enough to rest once she's passed on. Sharing her wisdom is her driving passion as a military leader.=Background: Adell sought a simple life of service-forgoing the family way-and spent decades in the military as a tracker and a scout. Her quiet demeanor never brought her fame, but amongst those she served, Adell had the utmost respect. A reluctant leader, her responsibilities grew and she took part in many campaigns, burying many of her fellows along the way. Her movements have slowed and her vision has blurred, but her instincts remain sharp. When Adell speaks, even the commander stops to listen and heed her council.=Traits: (DM) Ancient, military, outdoorsman=328*=Bailey Zaid=Latchkey Noble="You need to get in where? No problem. You're with me, aren't you?"=Appearance: As a member of an influential noble house, Bailey is primped, preened, dressed, and accessorized to perfection. When not being "handled" at official functions, her personal tastes tend towards over-the-top haute couture fashion.=Roleplaying: When she's being overseen, Bailey is the perfect noble lady, which mostly consists of sitting still and looking charming. Out from under the thumb of her handlers, she has quite a wild side and is energetic, boisterous, and loud.=Personality: Though she feels it's her duty to be the attractive backdrop at official functions, she chafes at her role and looks forward to opportunities to let loose and have fun.=Motivation: Her future promises to be both secure and boring, so Bailey is trying to do enough living now to last the rest of her life, and she's not particular about with whom she does it.=Background: Bailey's aunt always thrilled her with stories of adventure, excitement, and bucking the status quo, while her parents impressed on her the importance of duty and family. Now torn between her desires and her duty, she leads a double life and thrills at minor rebellions. Sneaking thieves into the palace and including adventurers in her entourage when she attends the ball is just as much of a thrill for her as slumming it at the docks.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, charming, dilettante, famous, royalty, wealthy=329*=Cybil=Addicted Prophet="You gots some more, um, stuff on ya? I could use some more o' that."=Appearance: She's a beggar, complete with sores, missing teeth, foul stench, and half-crazed rambling.=Roleplaying: A stereotypical street bum, she shuffles, is semi-coherent, loses her train of thought, and asks for money or "stuff."=Personality: The person she once was is lost to addiction. If healed, she'll be shy and embarrassed of her past.=Motivation: She needs more drugs to feed her addiction.=Background: Cybil's been a part of the street scene for as long as anyone can remember. The churches take pity on her on cold nights, and others will give her food to make her leave. Whenever she takes a dose of her drug, she becomes manic for about 15 minutes-flailing about, talking apparent nonsense, screaming. Then she settles down into a quiet mumbling trance for a few hours before passing out for most of a day. The key to Cybil is that her apparent nonsense is a prophecy for whoever gave her the drug. It's not necessarily clear, but taken with a bit of interpretation, will give a frighteningly accurate picture of what is going on around that individual. She is the only person so affected by the drug. The drug could be something as mundane as the dried seeds of a plant found nearby, as exotic as a processed compound, or as commonplace as a healing potion.=Traits: (KS) Hideous, impoverished, mysterious, primal=330*=Brother Mortimer=Jovial Friar of Death="Skulls shouldn't scare anyone; they're always grinning!"=Appearance: This plump, grinning, bald man in black robes adorned with silver skulls is the source of many double-takes.=Roleplaying: Jolly and gregarious, he's always got a smile on his face and a joke on his lips.=Personality: Brother Mortimer can find something positive about any situation, usually involving an intentionally bad pun.=Motivation: He enjoys making others laugh, and comforting mourners.=Background: The figure of Brother Mortimer is not how most envision a priest of the god of death. His downright jolly optimism seems completely at odds with expectations. Raised in his parents' funeral home, he had regular contact with the death god's priests, who ensure that the proper rituals are followed, and reassure the bereaved that the lost one's soul has found its resting place. Over time, he found himself emulating the Brothers, but his own effervescence bubbled to the surface, usually with positive results. He joined the priesthood as soon as he could. After his training, Brother Mortimer didn't seem to fit anywhere. He briefly found a home in a military outfit where his gallows humor was welcome, at least until a no-nonsense commander sent him packing. Now he finds himself preaching to adventurers and occasionally joining them. Brother Mortimer is not just comic relief: He is an active evangelist for the god of death, and is himself very happy that someone will see that his soul goes to its proper place when he dies.=Traits: (KS) Eccentric, humorous, religious, zealot=331*=Merrill Tasker=Shady Fence="Oh my. That's a fine piece, I have to admit. Exquisite markings. Easily identifiable…and tough to unload. I need a bigger cut of the action if I'm going to take this off your hands."=Appearance: Merrill looks distinguished, for a craftsman, in a well-tailored shirt and waistcoat. He keeps his shoulder-length hair pulled back and tightly braided.=Roleplaying: Worried about being caught or robbed, Merrill often wrings his hands.=Personality: While he cultivates the image of an upstanding storekeeper, at heart he is a sly operator. Even as a legitimate businessman, he drives a hard bargain. A skillful persuader, he will wrangle the best percentage for any item he is fencing.=Motivation: Merrill firmly believes that there are too many restrictions on the sale and possession of magical items, so he is willing to risk his business to fence such things.=Background: He is a respected jeweler in a district known for fine shops. In the back room, he offers his services as a fence to adventurers and acquisition agents. He developed an appraiser's eye for magic items while serving as an apprentice to a wizard. Not exhibiting any innate magical talents, he learned another trade from a jeweler. All the while, he dealt in costume jewelry, saving up a nice down-payment for a real storefront. After he established his legitimate shop, his more unseemly clientele continued to seek out his services.=Traits: (TT) Business, crafter, criminal=332*=The Widow Jones=Wandering Trader="Going to fight beasties and to hunt for treasure? Good for you! For a few coins you can buy some decent armor from me instead of rattling about in that ration can that you are wearing now. All sorts of critters will hear you wearing that rust pile!"=Appearance: She is elderly but with vibrant violet eyes. She wears a leather cloak with many pockets sewn into the lining that contain various items for sale.=Roleplaying: The Widow Jones loves people and will talk to anyone, listening intensely to every word that is spoken. She constantly is rummaging through her pockets, finding items to sell them based upon what she learns.=Personality: She is vibrant and energetic despite her age. She's a crafty merchant, but an old and kind soul.=Motivation: The Widow Jones figures that she has two options at her age: die or keep busy. She decided to keep busy.=Background: For years, she and her husband traveled the land selling goods to adventurers from their horse-drawn wagon. Her husband was killed by bandits 25 years ago. Many people expected her to do the proper thing and retire, but to their shock and disbelief, the Widow Jones is still doing what she and her husband always loved doing-selling goods to traveling adventurers.=Traits: (PB) Ancient, merchant=333*=Erlim the Speaker=Ancient Prophet="Do not judge me by my size. I have lived generations longer than you."=Appearance: Erlim appears to be an eight-year-old boy with a shaven head, but he has the demeanor of a wise old man. He usually walks with his hands behind his back as if he is studying everything he sees.=Roleplaying: He chooses his words carefully and asks as many questions as he answers, but his answers tend to spark more questions. He speaks like a wise teacher and chides others for their impulsiveness.=Personality: Erlim has the same personality of every Speaker before him; he acts as if there is little he doesn't know. He is world-weary and prefers to contemplate in his mountain monastery rather than see the world. Some believe he is depressed that he did not get to enjoy "life in ignorance."=Motivation: He helps those in need, usually with cryptic language.=Background: Erlim is the latest in a line of Speakers, the voice of the god of prophecy. He has the memories of every Speaker before him. Erlim was not supposed to become the Speaker this early in his life, as most Speakers are well into their middle age before receiving the mantle. His predecessor was killed by a barbaric warlord who disliked what the Speaker had to say. Erlim is disappointed that he missed out on having a childhood, but continues to do as his god asks of him.=Traits: (WC) Ancient, child, counselor, mysterious, religious, scholar=334*=Ramona Harrigan=Information Broker="If it's happening in the city, then it's getting ink on the page!"=Appearance: Ramona has a middle-aged, friendly face, and her clothing is forever ink-spattered.=Roleplaying: Perpetually busy, Ramona makes time to trade or hear information if there is a chance to learn something valuable.=Personality: She never forgets a piece of information, and Ramona has an uncanny ability to connect the lines between seemingly unrelated events.=Motivation: Ramona wants to act as a balancing force against the city's corrupt government.=Background: Once an official in the city's government, she quickly realized the supposed democratic process of the city was corrupted by the nobility to an irredeemable degree. Seeing no way to change the system from within, Ramona left her office and began an underground newspaper, but that is only half the story. Ramona hears everything from everyone-urchins, thieves, prostitutes, merchants, political figures, and even the corrupt nobles she works against come to her to trade information and determine opponent's strategies. With the tiniest tidbit of information, she is able to make connections and sort out the truth of most situations. She is always willing to share this information with those who might make a positive force for change in the city. This sometimes gets her into trouble with those who would keep their business secret, but Ramona is smart enough to not print dangerous information, only coyly spread it for the greater good.=Traits: (JA) Genius, political, scholar=