Sci-Fi Allies=These NPCs can hack into secure systems to clear a path for the PCs, rain down a withering hail of gunfire on the party's foes, and broker peaceful first contact meetings with alien species. In them, the stars of your campaign-the PCs-will find fast friends, valuable contacts, wise advisors, and buddies who can fill out the roles none of your players wanted to take on, from pilot to medic to scientist. If the PCs treat them well, they'll soon see why good allies are so important in most sci-fi campaigns.=585***=Bai'ell Jonaburg=Laughing Smuggler="So, you want something from old Bai'ell, eh? Well, you've come to the right place. My Completely Legitimate Black Market Smuggling Business (TM) is here to serve."=Appearance: Bulky in frame, Bai'ell is a mountain of a man. While some of this is fluff and fat, it rests on a strong muscled interior. Many have mistaken Bai'ell for an easy target, only to find themselves with time to reconsider while their bones mend.=Roleplaying: Bai'ell worries about nothing. Life is one grand adventure, even when he lands in jail. Bai'ell has a policy of utmost truth, but can talk circles around most people without ever lying.=Personality: Friendly and upfront, Bai'ell is never without a smile or a slap on the back for an old friend-or a new one. Bai'ell will make friends with anyone, even prison guards and people pointing guns at him.=Motivation: Bai'ell only wants to enjoy his life and keep skirting the boundaries of what he should and shouldn't do. He likes the thrill of smuggling and the fact that he might get caught.=Background: Bai'ell never had much time for anger or sadness. Those emotions would just slow him down when he could be having fun. Bai'ell's past jobs never gave him the freedom and fun his current one does, but they teach him a lot. He's been a cop, trucker, bureaucrat, and farm worker, and each job taught him skills that help him get around the authorities.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, humorous, laborer, pilot=586***=Yaggo Beaker=Introverted Engineer="I bet I could get an extra 0.5% out of the engine if I just tweak the capacitor like so… Hmm, that wasn't supposed to happen."=Appearance: As he is usually in the heart of overheating machinery, Yaggo has a crew cut and steam-tanned skin that is usually caked in grease. He lost his eyebrows ages ago. As the result of a previous accident, Yaggo's lower left leg is artificial.=Roleplaying: Always eager to talk shop, Yaggo is very animated when he talks about ship speeds and performance. If the conversation drifts away from what he loves, Yaggo becomes quiet and morose, completely disinterested.=Personality: Yaggo was shy and introverted as a child and found solace only by working with machines. He doesn't know how to handle social situations. Yaggo feels that, given enough time and hard work, he can upgrade the capabilities of any machine.=Motivation: He loves tinkering with machines and enhancing their performance.=Background: Yaggo was born in a space freighter. While acutely aware of his surroundings and the fact that his life depended on the proper operation of machines, Yaggo was woefully under-socialized. His mind simply dulls when not discussing machinery. He excells at computers and engineering and is a highly prized engineer. Or at least he would be, if his obsession for making machines better didn't cause problems more often than not. Yaggo can't resist tweaking things, and this causes machines to go wrong at inopportune times. =Traits: (WC) Crafter, genius, humorous=587***=Zaleer Mashern=Reckless Body Modifier="Check it out, I got a clear brainpan like the Temori, the facial scars of a Bemzot, the eyes of a Tenarian, and these cool synthetic tentacles that let me taste 20 times as much!"=Appearance: Zaleer is a conglomeration of many alien pieces or self-crafted biological implements. He likes having options, and will change parts every few months using technology from the bio-manipulation firms whose stock he holds.=Roleplaying: He's always excited to meet new races, mostly because it gives him a chance to collect new alien DNA. He doesn't see anything odd about his body modification obsession; it makes him feel good.=Personality: Zaleer likes being different. He's oblivious to the fact that his odd gestalt appearance disturbs most people.=Motivation: Zaleer is looking for the ultimate breakthrough, the thing that will allow him to be a full shape changer, capable of manipulating his form at will.=Background: Enjoying all of the advances that medical technology can bring him, Zaleer loves the transgenic experimentation that lets him make extreme modifications to his natural form. Zaleer is independently wealthy, and his smart investments in bio-manipulation companies ensure that he has access to the newest technologies. Frequently, he'll completely modify himself to look like one of the many alien species that deal with Earth, trying to integrate himself into their culture as much as possible, but this often does more harm than good.=Traits: (JA) Eccentric, focal, wealthy, zealot=588***=Professor Eli Jenkins=Alien Rights Activist="I admit that I made a mistake in advocating for the Xentarrians to be allowed to bring their pets to Earth. The translator said the pets were approximately five pounds. I had no idea that Xentarrian pets were five-ton lizards. But allowing the meat-eating plants of the Synkonos tribe from Omega 10 to be planted in their gardens is a completely different matter. Those plants only weigh a ton at the most."=Appearance: His suit is wrinkled and the knot in his tie is always loose. His comb over is ludicrous, and his thin frame seems to be swamped by the large overcoat that he wears.=Roleplaying: The professor constantly digs through his notes on his pocket supercomputer to reference facts and details that support his positions.=Personality: Professor Jenkins has a warm and caring soul, and he is truly brilliant when it comes to interacting with alien cultures. He just has a very poor track record of doing so successfully.=Motivation: He wants all intelligent species to co-exist in peace.=Background: Eli Jenkins traveled the galaxy with his family, who owned a space courier business. He became masterful in interacting with alien cultures, but he was never very good at dealing with his own human culture. He began fighting for the rights of aliens when he returned to Earth in his mid-twenties, and is considered one of the foremost experts on interspecies communications.=Traits: (PB) Academic, counselor, humorous, political, scholar=589***=Carmen Apollona=Sharp-Eared Bartender="You want to know what those guys said? They said I got three hungry kids at home, and need some cold-hard to tell you what the heck they said."=Appearance: Carmen is a middle-aged woman wearing worn clothes, a bar rag never far from her hand.=Roleplaying: Her sharp tongue and assertive attitude make her quite memorable.=Personality: She doesn't take anything from anyone, and doesn't give anything away for free, either. =Motivation: Anyone who has tried raising three kids on a space station on tips alone knows what motivates Carmen: money.=Background: An early marriage to an officer on a spaceport promised a comfortable life in an exotic environment. But a few years later, Carmen had three kids, an early divorce, a shrinking bank account, and a lot of time left on her contract. In the years since then, she's worked hard to stay afloat and keep her kids near their father. He's not a bad person, but she's not the typical officer's wife (and quite proud of that fact). Regardless, she's not above trading information for cash. She's not as mercenary as she seems, but a spaceport is an expensive place to be a single mother.=Traits: (KS) Entertainment, humorous, impoverished, merchant=590***=Haylen Tiago=Inquisitive Non-Conformist="I would like to know more about why we are the way we are. Something doesn't quite fit. We say we are free. But are we, really? I have an impulse. Should I act on it?"=Appearance: Haylen, like most people in his utopian society, cultivates an androgynous profile through his choice of clothes and mannerisms. He has an olive complexion, black hair, and dark brown eyes.=Roleplaying: He often gets a faraway look in his eyes, as if considering whether to act on his feelings.=Personality: He is pleasant to be around. When he begins to drop hints about his motivations, others will shy away. Haylen knows that his yearning to experience forbidden things is "wrong" and that it is outside the bounds of accepted behavior, but he is determined to find someone who shares the desire.=Motivation: He is trying to discover who he is and is determined to seek out that which is forbidden, regardless of the consequences.=Background: During his infancy, there was a "difficulty." His mother refused to submit him for educational conditioning at the appropriate time. The state restricted contact between mother and child, and assumed complete control of his upbringing. Haylen's mother has completed therapy, but she is prohibited from engaging in unsupervised contact, a process that is hardly worth the effort.=Traits: (TT) Political, white collar=591***=Justin Natas=Selfish Engineer="There are seven things that make an engine great. The first three are that it was made by me."=Appearance: Heavily muscled under a layer of blubber, Justin's chubby baby face is perpetually squished into a smile. He wears badly stained overalls, and a myriad of tools and gadgets fill his pockets.=Roleplaying: When it benefits him, Justin is helpful and pleasant. Otherwise he is apathetic. Pushed too hard, he becomes surly and rude.=Personality: Justin is always formulating plots to improve his station. He cunningly manipulates situations for his own benefit.=Motivation: In order to create a revolutionary prototype, Justin needs to get his hands on rare and precious materials and components.=Background: Justin has been perfecting his science for years. He longs to be known for designing an incredible device, but believes that he needs suitable materials to begin the design process. He is smart and skillful, has pushed many a blaster to its limits in the name of testing, and uses clever tactical planning, making him an adequate warrior. He has begun to accompany freelancers in the hopes of procuring the materials and components he needs for his creations. If a group finds suitable material but are reluctant to let Justin have it, he may become more of a nuisance than a help.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, crafter, humorous, scientist=592***=Zen Hannover=Pulp Explorer="Ready, kid? JUMP!"=Appearance: He wears a dusty leather jacket and leather pants, a light brown shirt, and an equipment belt. A wide-brimmed hat is tipped down, obscuring the face above his stubble. A monogrammed holster on his side has a stylized "Z" on it.=Roleplaying: Cool under fire and smooth talking, Zen exudes confidence. He talks in a slow drawl and has an easy manner about him. He calls everyone "kid."=Personality: Quick on his feet, a life on the edge demands he is ready for anything. He's not easily flustered and sees setbacks as opportunities. He relishes adventure and approaches the world with childlike wonder and enthusiasm. Zen sees the potential for good in everything.=Motivation: He wants to reveal the truth at all costs, especially if there's adventure to be had!=Background: Part rogue, part adventurer, Zen is all action. He started by taking the odd smuggling job, but soon grew bored-until he stumbled upon a lost treasure map. The next thing Zen knew, he was famous in three systems. Now various individuals contact Zen to follow-up on forgotten tales, hidden treasures, and lost ciphers. A vid-drama was released, portraying Zen's over-the-top adventures-a persona he feels he has to live up to. His weakness for women is widely known, as is his knee-weakening charm. Kids ask for his autograph and angry husbands chase him in every starport. He prefers to let his fists do the talking.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, charming, famous=593***=Sage "Scarab" Andrews=Hotshot Pilot="I'm going to take her up to 75% of light speed and head into that asteroid belt-we'll lose them in there. Don't worry, I could do this one-handed. In fact, that sounds like fun…"=Appearance: She has dark brown skin, delicate features, and wears her black hair in a short ponytail. Trim and athletic, she's rarely seen in anything other than a flight suit.=Roleplaying: Sage is 100% certain that she's the best pilot in the galaxy. She shows off as often as possible, and ignores the odds when taking risks.=Personality: Sage is a cocky, overconfident hotshot who's accustomed to winning races, succeeding at the impossible, and taking on all comers. She's not rebellious as much as she is free-spirited and passionate, but she's not fond of regulations.=Motivation: She loves to fly, and revels in just how damned good she is. She constantly pushes herself, and her ship, beyond the limit-just to prove that she can.=Background: Sage likes to tell the story of her birth, claiming that she was born in the cockpit of an atmospheric fighter while her mother fought off three enemy ships. True or not, she's an ace pilot of the highest order, and she flies like she was born to do nothing else. Sage has a passion for the history of flight, as well; she flies simulated WWI and WWII fighters, and builds model planes, in her downtime.=Traits: (MR) Military, pilot=594***=Kuruk Skyrover=Tribal Warrior="If you push me again, honor will dictate a proper response."=Appearance: His facial tattoos and tribal jewelry stand out from the crowd. A worldly person might identify him as a warrior from a primitive planet.=Roleplaying: His stance is proud and aggressive, and he speaks plainly and directly. His battle cry is his tribe's name, "Burekkar!"=Personality: A warrior born and bred, he is aggressive and proud, and will not condone dishonorable behavior.=Motivation: He lives to bring honor to himself and his tribe through victories in combat.=Background: As one of the warrior caste, he has been trained to fight since he could crawl. Early on, he showed a knack for creative solutions to problems, which drew both respect and ire from his clan brothers. A series of coincidences led to an extended departure from his homeland in the company of a group of traders. Some of the more conservative elders saw his departure as a betrayal, and he was not wholly welcomed when he returned home. He set out once more with the next agreeable group of traders who came through his town. He suspects that his tribal elders contrived his departure, but he cannot turn against them. Instead, he carries his tribe's honor wherever he travels, hoping that some day, he will have earned the right to return home.=Traits: (KS) Adventurer, aggressive, eccentric, primal, warrior=595***=Stephanie Fi=Xenopsychology Expert="Those gashes are too far apart to be a Prekeln, and there's one digit too many for it to be an Isikarn. That leaves one alien at the top of our list...anyone? What do they teach you these days?"=Appearance: Stephanie is petite, green-eyed, and sports a killer smile. She usually wears feminine styles and is fit, though not particularly muscular. Her blond hair falls to her shoulders in ringlets.=Roleplaying: She strides with confidence and tosses her ringlets to emphasize a point. Her finger stabs out accusations and draws plans on streets, tabletops, and portable computers.=Personality: Stephanie is direct, confident in her expertise, and is here to solve problems, not to make people feel better. The crime scene comes first-comforting people is someone else's job.=Motivation: At least a head shorter than everyone on a job, and female, everyone thinks she's there to nurture. She fights that assumption hard, cracking insensitive jokes about victims and grounding her arguments in cold logic.=Background: Stephanie is an expert on alien thought patterns, brought in by police to offer an academic perspective. Her research is extensive but not groundbreaking in academia; her students joke (behind her back) that she can become an alien in thought-she just doesn't have the mass to shift her body to match. She seeks out police cases because they offer her a better chance at advancement than research alone ever will.=Traits: (SM) Dilettante, humorous, police, scholar=596***=Kora Starsinger=Garrulous Pilot="This course will take us past the Montag system. Did you know that Montag II had a civil war that began over a dropped napkin? You see, in their culture it's considered sacrilegious to…"=Appearance: Kora is a short young woman with her hair set in the elaborate braids of her home world culture. Her skin is a deep pink, a permanent alteration that protected her from the unique solar radiation on her world. She prefers to wear combat shorts, a tank top, and a short jacket when piloting.  =Roleplaying: She is a bundle of energy. Kora can't help but ramble on and on about the various places that she passes in flight. She'll also wax philosophical on any destination that the PCs are thinking of going.=Personality: An explorer at heart, Kora genuinely loves being in space and doesn't like to stay in one place for too long. She is eager to learn about new planets and cultures.=Motivation: She wants to add to her knowledge of the universe while helping others.=Background: Kora was born on a harsh colony world and spent most of her life in a single settlement. She became a pilot so she could "get off that rock and never look back." She is very eager to learn about the universe and collects knowledge on every place she can. Unfortunately, she doesn't realize that most people don't share her enthusiasm or wonderment and would rather not hear her ramble.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, pilot=597***=Rolf Voold=Anxious Tattoo Artist="I know they are a half a light-year away, yet I can feel their guns trained on us. I can hardly sleep. It's not that bad. I do some of my best work when I am short on sleep. So where do you want it?"=Appearance: Rolf is tall with long fingers and a physique that comes from living in zero-g. His blond hair is long and tied back in a loose ponytail.=Roleplaying: He always wrings his hands when he talks. He likes to doodle or sketch designs when bored.=Personality: Rolf is very nervous, a side effect from his years in the war. He tries to play it down, but he lives in subdued terror.=Motivation: He's looking for the inner peace he lost during the war.=Background: Rolf grew up on a simple world and enrolled early into the military. He went to war against the aliens and suffered wounds on three occasions. After the war, he tried to forget what had happened, but his memories never left him. Unable to hold any real job, Rolf traveled from sector to sector picking up odd jobs. Eventually, he learned the art of tattooing and found his calling. His work has become an outlet for the fear that he carries. He hopes that he never sees combat again, but would never turn down a request from a friend.=Traits: (PV) Artist, impoverished, military=598***=Princess Andrea Mara=Cybernetic Warrior Princess="Don't hold back. I won't learn anything if you do."=Appearance: Andrea is lithe and muscular, and her wrists end in scarred stumps fitted with prosthetic mechanical tentacles. Her face is pretty, with an upturned, sparsely freckled nose. She wears loose airy fashions that don't hamper her flowing, graceful movements.=Roleplaying: Demure and well-mannered, Andrea speaks rarely and quietly. The motions and touch of her tentacles make her mood obvious even in silence.=Personality: With her hypersensitive tentacles, new tactile sensations fascinate Andrea. Though generally good-natured, Andrea suffers occasional bouts of depression brought about by her past. She assuages her spiritual pain by wallowing in sensory overload.=Motivation: As a warrior princess, Andrea seeks to improve her martial skills to perfect her role as royal champion. She'd also like to make the crying stop.=Background: Andrea is the oldest royal daughter in training to be the royal champion. An accident when she was young left her without hands. She has trained extensively to develop her own unique fighting style that turns her prosthetic tentacles into deadly weapons. She is eager to perfect her abilities and often challenges visiting warriors to practice duels. Aside from steady dedication to her grim occupation, Andrea has tastes and interests similar to other young women in the area.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, royalty, warrior=599***=Jirrat Suleiman=Pessimistic Mechanic="Oh, I can fix it, alright. But you'll just break it again, probably worse."=Appearance: Jirrat has long, slender arms that are stronger than they look, and he wears stained clothes that are covered in pockets and pouches.=Roleplaying: He assumes the worst about everything, especially technology, and swears constantly under his breath while he works.=Personality: A pessimist to the core, Jirrat can be hard to get along with, but he's also intensely loyal and takes pride in his work. He prefers the company of machines to people during the day, but spends his evenings at the local bar chatting up travelers.=Motivation: He wants to see the galaxy, but he's afraid of change. He likes his routines at the spaceport, and takes pride in a job well done.=Background: Jirrat works as a starship mechanic at a ramshackle spaceport that sees its share of smugglers, adventurers, and down-on-their-luck wayfarers. Consequently, he's learned how to fix just about everything on a wide range of ships, often without the right tools. He stays because he was born there-literally, in one of the repair bays. With his parents dead and no other family, the spaceport is all he knows. He's comfortable there, and he likes that his regular customers treat him well-but secretly he'd love for someone to pry him free.=Traits: (MR) Business, crafter=600***=Johnny Slipstream=Chivalrous Con Artist="I never steal from anyone who can't afford it."=Appearance: Johnny is always stylish, wearing his hair in the latest fashion and his clothes according to the latest trends. He is rarely without his mirror shades, which have a microcomputer installed in them. Johnny has a bit of a baby face that makes him attractive as well as underestimated.=Roleplaying: He is immediately a best friend, showering those he meets with appropriate comments even as he is about to rob them blind. Johnny never loses his cool, even when his plans are crumbling.=Personality: Johnny convinced himself long ago that the only difference between him and legitimate businesspeople is that he lacks a license to steal. He also gives at least some of his scores to those in need to further legitimize his activities.=Motivation: He enjoys the finer things in life and steals to acquire them.=Background: Johnny discovered early in life that he had a penchant for cons. Since security in the core worlds was tight, Johnny works his craft in the frontier regions. These sparsely populated areas are primarily controlled by interstellar corporations exploiting colonists to mine rare ores. Johnny runs a number of cons including ore inspection, bureaucratic bribery, and even occasional piracy. While he enjoys the wealth he's amassed through his cons, Johnny does give the majority of what he gains to suffering colonists (which incidentally makes the crimes harder to trace back to him).=Traits: (WC) Beautiful, charming, criminal=601***=Lady Valeria Telaquilonius =Proud Noblewoman="My ancestors were senators in ancient Rome. We have lost our lands, our people, our power, and our freedom countless times. We have never lost our pride or our integrity, nor will we ever."=Appearance: An elegantly dressed woman of middle years, her regal bearing and razor-sharp gaze are balanced by a warm smile.=Roleplaying: An aristocratic accent and pristine manners allow her to cut to the truth of the matter without offense.=Personality: A truly noble woman, she is true to her word, and cares about those under her banner. =Motivation: She will do anything to promote and protect her family and those who serve them.=Background: Raised in the finest traditions of her family's lineage, Valeria is unable to bear children of her own. Unshaken at this discovery, she has taken on the role of the family's ambassador. She has foregone marriage, as a single woman can operate more freely in the byzantine maze that is imperial politics. Officially, she acts as the family's representative, generally at court but occasionally to other worlds and noble houses. Privately, she manages an extensive network of agents and operatives, and is always looking out for those with certain skills, whether for a quick job, extended employment, or even a lifetime. =Traits: (KS) Charming, genius, political, royalty, stealthy, wealthy=602***=Isaac Malas=Butcher Prince="I did what I had to do, and now I have to live with it."=Appearance: Isaac has classic Roman features. As a high-ranking officer in the military, he wears his uniform and carries himself like a soldier.=Roleplaying: Unless addressed by a higher-ranking officer, Isaac refuses to look anyone in the eyes. He has a traditional military attitude, but he pauses before delivery as he works up the energy.=Personality: Depressed and haunted by his greatest military victory, Isaac shuns human company whenever he can. He forces himself out of isolation only for duty or if his actions may help ease his conscience.=Motivation: Isaac seeks to make things as right as he can by improving life for his subjects.=Background: Serving as a commander during a civil war, Isaac made the difficult decision to bombard rebel forces. Though it eliminated the threat to his family's monarchy, the measure also destroyed large swaths of his country's capital and killed thousands of civilians, including his own brother, who had defected to the rebellion. His actions won an otherwise hopeless war, but the loss of life haunts him to this day. Even though his side won the war and wrote the history books, his own scribes referred to him as "the Butcher Prince." He has since tirelessly campaigned for the needs of his people to make any repeat of the past unnecessary.=Traits: (MN) Abhorrent, leader, military, notorious, royalty, wealthy=603***=Missy "Hot Pants" McGregors=Misfit Heroine="Lay down some cover fire while I upload the brain scan of this jungle guerilla fighter! I'm sure that it has some combat skills that I can access! Whoa! Now I know how to skin a person alive! Ewwwww!"=Appearance: She wears her hot pink hair-which matches her hot pink pants-in pigtails. Her leather jacket has pins and patches from all of her favorite night clubs. Her cybernetic neural link port is barely noticeable behind her left ear.=Roleplaying: Her eyes are large and wide-open as she is constantly scanning her surroundings for things to interact with. She never uses vulgar language, but instead mimics video game sound effects to show her displeasure with something.=Personality: Missy is carefree and wants to have fun. She is not irresponsible, though, just happy.=Motivation: Missy wants to see the world, and she will jump at any job that takes her to a destination that she has never visited before.=Background: Missy volunteered for a medical research project that implanted a device into her brain that allows her to access chips written with the brainwave patterns of people who have undergone a painless scanning procedure. She did not know that the project was funded by the military, and when they decided to "decommission" her, she used her newfound skills to escape and go on the run. Now she is part of a mercenary team for hire.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, charming, eccentric, humorous=604***=Marianne Dern=Philanthropic AI="Ned, that bastard! I'd slap him silly if I had any hands!"=Appearance: A kaleidoscope of swirling color on a monitor, Marianne's physical form no longer exists. A display shows her iconic representation, which changes color based on her mood and thought process.=Roleplaying: She's quite excitable at times and her synthetic voice reaches a feverish pitch, especially when discussing her long-dead husband, Ned.=Personality: Hundreds of years of artificial life have done little to dampen Marianne's spirit. She's lively, engaged, and highly invested in her philanthropic endeavors, as she has little material need and no regard for money. Conveniently, she has a lot of it.=Motivation: She likes to help others and wants to stick it Ned. One. More. Time.=Background: Marianne's husband, Ned Dern, built a technological empire in biomechanical and electro-synthesis science, investigating ways to extend the life of the human species. Unfortunately, a freak accident vaporized Ned in his advanced years, leaving Marianne to run the company. As she succumbed to advanced age, a clause in Ned's will had Marianne introduced into their prototype biosynthesis mainframe, where her consciousness was transferred. Now Marianne finds herself trapped-unwilling to pull the plug on herself-and uses her financial empire to solve problems. She financially backs adventurers who are willing to take on her causes, helping those in trouble. Marianne doesn't fully understand how the world has changed in the intervening decades as she is static in time.=Traits: (DM) Eccentric, wealthy=605***=Silas Jay-Four=Cloned Warrior="Are you sure you don't want the original? Silas Jovio is with his family on Savannah 3. I'm just yesterday's trash."=Appearance: Looking like a grizzled old soldier that's seen better days, Silas wears the remnants of a marine uniform and has scraggly gray-white hair beneath his hat. His body is more spare parts than original and he carries his weapons everywhere.=Roleplaying: He is terse and unemotional most of the time, although his eyes betray sadness and weariness. =Personality: Silas has been depressed ever since the war ended and he discovered that he was a clone. He had nothing to go home to and carries his pain with him. He tends to have a very cynical view of life.=Motivation: He is seeking a purpose to his life.=Background: Silas was a soldier in the last galactic war. Believing himself to be human, Silas was horrified to discover that he was part of an experimental program that created clones of soldiers. His past and the family he loved belonged to someone else. Silas would have welcomed death, but the Congress considered clones real people. Many clones committed suicide, but Silas is looking for a purpose. He takes comfort in helping those whom society has failed and fights like the warrior he was created to be.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, magical, warrior=606***=Brinkley Amundersen=Spoiled Starship Officer="No? You dare say no to me? You do realize who my daddy is, right?"=Appearance: She is exceptionally pretty and petite, with pouty lips and a turned-up nose. Her starship uniform is adorned with a surprising number of shoulder collar chevrons, ribbons, and fourragère for one so young.=Roleplaying: Brinkley stands erect as if born to command. When angry or pouting, she folds her arms in front of her and glares imperiously.=Personality: She digs her heels in and becomes angry when exceptions aren't made on her behalf. Though many of the other officers find her insufferable, she has extreme confidence in herself and her ability to lead. She has few true friends, but those she has, she treasures.=Motivation: She thinks she should always get her way.=Background: Brinkley is the admiral's daughter, and despite being spoiled, she is a brilliant strategist and born leader. She's earned every decoration she has and isn't shy about wearing them. She dotes on a group of officers loyal to her, seeing that they have everything they need, even if it requires her to access unorthodox channels. She is advancing rapidly through the ranks, partly because of daddy smoothing the way, partly because her team gets things accomplished.=Traits: (TT) Famous, leader, military=607***=Solon=Itinerant Scientist="We're such fragile, transient creatures, yet we're privileged to see and accomplish such amazing things."=Appearance: Forty-five and fit, Solon has black hair, blunt features, and a round face. He moves like a spacer: easily in zero-gee, but with effort under gravity.=Roleplaying: Solon listens raptly during conversation, and talks often of high philosophical concepts. He speaks in a flowing, cultured manner.=Personality: Solon is fascinated with the universe-all of it. He likes nothing better than seeing a new phenomenon for the first time, documenting discoveries, and philosophizing about the nature of humanity, reality, and God's place in it all. He's curious, open-minded, and a voracious learner.=Motivation: Only one thing terrifies Solon: the certain knowledge that no matter how hard he tries, he won't be able to see the whole universe before he dies. He's driven to seek out new life, new civilizations, and the marvels of our galaxy.=Background: An itinerant scientist and philosopher, Solon is well-off enough to afford passage just about anywhere he likes, but he prefers to join up with interesting people and see what comes his way. He's a font of information on a wide variety of scientific, social, cultural, historical, and religious topics, though science is his (very broad) focus. As an ally, he makes a great "pocket sage," and he can also be handy to have along for diplomatic missions, first contact scenarios, and the like.=Traits: (MR) Academic, counselor, scholar, scientist=608***=Becky Brink=Timid Psychic="Watch careful-there hasn' been snake bi' for 136 years, but let's not start today."=Appearance: Becky is a bright-eyed 22-year-old. She's tan, fit, and muscled from extensive hiking and outdoor activities. She's tall and lean, often wearing simple hiking gear-though she changes into an outfit made for a 1920s séance to guide people through a vision.=Roleplaying: Becky constantly quirks her lips or half raises her hand as if she's going to ask a question, but one never follows. She drops letters off the end of her words-not in a rush, but as if she hesitates to speak them.=Personality: Caution defines Becky; she'd love to go worldwide with her discovery, but she needs security and friends to back her before she'll even consider it.=Motivation: She has long wanted to understand people better and be friendlier, but she keeps her guard up-she's afraid to trust. Shared vision jumps straight past those awkward barriers.=Background: Becky loved exploring the wilderness with her parents as a child. As a teen, she took men out in the wilderness for privacy. On one of her adventures, she was transported beyond herself; she and her date shared a vivid dream world together-almost, but not quite, telepathy. She soon identified the source as spores from a local fungus, blowing on the breeze. Her experience, shared with friends, built a cult dedicated to communing with each other and the wild.=Traits: (SM) Humorous, occult, outdoorsman=609***=Maurice Elnos=Celebrity Counselor="Your problems aren't so bad. A certain star had to be in two systems at opposite ends of Orion's arm simultaneously to film his newest release. No, I can't tell you who..."=Appearance: Tanned and fit, Maurice is a comfortable 40, with long, flowing hair. His deep blue eyes encourage others to confide in him.=Roleplaying: Maurice is everyone's friend, eager to backslap and praise. He's quick to smile, shake hands, and lean in for confidences that they really shouldn't share.=Personality: Maurice changes demeanor at the drop of a hat, going from gregarious and intimate to shouting and crazed after an insult, real or perceived. While he's your friend, he pushes examination and reflection-even on two minutes acquaintance-but he's quick to hint at former confidences if he's on the outs.=Motivation: Maurice lives in the moment, feeling it fully and not planning long term. This makes him honest-a trait his celebrity friends appreciate. The people he compares himself to are all wealthy, skilled, and successful-so he clutches hard at their foibles, justifying himself as their equal.=Background: Maurice and Dimeteor, his biggest client, were friends from way back; when Dimeteor blew up big, Maurice followed him out onto the galactic stage. He struck the right chord with info brokers, offering an intimate background that made Dimeteor's fans feel like they understood him. Stars value his insight, giving him more tidbits that keep the fans' interest.=Traits: (SM) Counselor, entertainment, notorious=610***=Rose "Ace" Dakota=Merciless Pilot="If they're in your sights, you fire!"=Appearance: Rose is trim and athletic, with a sleepy face that belies her killer instinct. When engaged in mercenary work, she wears her old pilot's uniform.=Roleplaying: Constantly gauging the talents and abilities of those around her, Rose pesters people with questions about experience, challenges them to competitions, and otherwise tests their abilities. She is confident, in your face, and ready to prove her mettle at a moment's notice.=Personality: Cold and merciless, Rose does what she's paid to do without question. She lets others worry about ethical implications.=Motivation: Rose works to improve her reputation as a mercenary and to size up potential future employees for when she forms her own mercenary company=Background: A star pupil in all disciplines at the military academy, Rose excelled as a fighter pilot. During training exercises and her initial forays in the field, she set new records that are still on the books today. However, early in her career, Rose noticed that some allied ships were behaving strangely. When she could not confirm they had not been compromised, Rose opened fire and destroyed them. Later, diagnostics of the wreckage confirmed that the pilots had in fact been spies, and their ships had been outfitted with unlicensed weapons. Even so, Rose was politely discharged for destroying apparently friendly ships, during negotiations, on a hunch, with no orders.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, aggressive, military, pilot=611***=The Muse=Seductive Hacker="Of course I can get the Red Mars Corporate files on Project Haley for you, darling. Shall we sit by the fire and share a drink first?"=Appearance: The Muse is utterly gorgeous, devastatingly fashionable, flirtatious, and promiscuous. She changes her hair, eyes, skin, and even body shape as it suits her, although she prefers unnatural colors such as neon green hair and copper skin. The Muse can accomplish all this because she's just a virtual creation.=Roleplaying: She is always playful and seductive. The Muse always mixes business with pleasure and prefers to negotiate in bed in a secluded mountain cabin, or lying on the beach. =Personality: In real life, the Muse is an average person with a bureaucratic job that grants access to sensitive information. In the virtual world, the Muse is flirty and carefree, although she does have a strong sense of justice. =Motivation: She just wants to enjoy her fantasies (she has many) while aiding others in the real world. =Background: The person behind the Muse is shrouded in mystery; age, gender, and location are all unknown. What is known is that the Muse appeared on the galactic network about four years ago, offering information to adventurers that were seeking justice. She asks for no money in return, only that those she helps indulge in her fantasies with her on occasion. She is a master hacker and can get into almost any system.=Traits: (WC) Beautiful, business, charming, criminal, mysterious=612***=Reverend Zedekiah=Post-Apocalyptic Preacher="Repent, sinners! For I am the Reverend Zedekiah, the Gun Hand of God, and I will wreak his terrible vengeance upon ye!"=Appearance: A lean and haggard older man, he wears a priest's collar under his patchwork armor. Crosses are carved into the handles of his pistols.=Roleplaying: He quotes violent Bible verses that nobody's ever heard before, and has a penchant for hard liquor.=Personality: At least half-crazed, he drifts across the wastelands, looking for sinners to redeem, or at least to send to their final resting place. =Motivation: He lives to give sinners a chance to convert, although sometimes only a brief chance. If they don't, he's more than comfortable sending them to their maker.=Background: Nobody really knows where Zedekiah (Hebrew for "Justice of God") came from. He claims to have once been a sinner, and his excellent combat skills attest to at least one sin he's familiar with. He shows up in a town and starts preaching from his book, claiming that he's sent to give people one last chance to redeem themselves. He's subjective in his judgments: In one town, he'll tear up a bar for gambling, but walk right past the bordello; in the next town, he may reverse that. But he has no problem with alcohol, and regularly takes a pull from his flask. Regardless of what people may think, wherever he goes, he usually uncovers something wicked going on, and puts a stop to it. =Traits: (KS) Adventurer, aggressive, mysterious, outdoorsman, religious, warrior, zealot=613***=Lieutenant Ulit Bayen=Poised Sniper="No, he's not too far away to hit. See that satellite? That's too far. He's practically up my ass, he's so close."=Appearance: All hard edges and taut muscles, Ulit has white-blond hair and pale blue eyes. Her posture is erect and alert, and even when out of uniform, her clothes are practical and military in style.=Roleplaying: Ulit has a foul mouth that seems at odds with her cool, poised demeanor. She speaks only when she must.=Personality: Lt. Bayen doesn't "get" people, so she's made herself into a weapon. She prefers to be alone, scouting kill sites and stalking her targets, but she parties hard after missions. When she lets her hair down, she becomes an entirely different person.=Motivation: Ulit is the best at what she does, and means to stay that way. She wants to be known throughout the galaxy as the ultimate sniper.=Background: Raised as a space marine brat, Lt. Bayen joined the military as soon as she was old enough. Her marksmanship put her at the top of her class, but her personality kept her from starting out as an officer-and as a loner, she doesn't much care about rank. She lives to shoot-for the clean, pure, line that is a solo mission accomplished flawlessly from insertion to extraction. Ulit can bag targets in zero-gee, while firing from and at moving spaceships, on high and low gravity worlds-anywhere, anytime.=Traits: (MR) Military, stealthy, warrior=614***=Kevin Cooper=Deep Space Explorer="Just go do your damn job, or at least get out of the way so I can do mine."=Appearance: Though he's well into retirement age, Kevin's physique would make a man 40 years his junior jealous. He crops his receding blond hair close to his skull and wears a military uniform in a style last produced 30 years ago.=Roleplaying: Kevin rarely speaks, even when spoken to. If prodded to share his insights, he does so, but his speech is an unfiltered stream of consciousness, rife with unnecessary commentary on surroundings and unrelated tangents on matters that most would consider personal.=Personality: An explorer at heart, Kevin is curious, bold, and fearless. He is precise and careful and tries to quantify things exactly.=Motivation: Kevin wants to prove his worth to military command despite his age and communication handicaps, so that he can reenlist and go on another long-term exploration mission.=Background: Recently returned from one of the first long-term exploration missions with a decade's worth of scientific readings, Kevin is a military hero. Age, outdated skills, and the impact of long-term isolation on his psyche all combined to force Kevin into retirement against his will. He faces a world that he doesn't understand, people with whom he can't communicate, and an aimless future. Desperate to reenlist and return to his mission of exploration, Kevin is trying to prove he still has what it takes.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, eccentric, military, pilot, scientist=615***=Katrina Impulse=Aggressive Journalist="So what you're saying is that this is where you perform unsanctioned experiments on people from ‘lost' colony ships? Um, why are you pointing that at me?"=Appearance: Katrina is a young, perky woman who wears trendy clothes that hug her curves and is constantly plugged into devices that stream information to her. She's always moving and appears slightly distracted.=Roleplaying: She gets right into people's faces with the cameras running. She can be quite pleasant, but quickly moves into probing, direct questions if she believes that her interviewee is hiding something. Eventually, she gets red-faced and accusatory if her interviewee doesn't crack first.=Personality: When not investigating, Katrina has a fun, bubbly personality. She holds strong opinions on many topics and loves to share them, but gets adversarial if people don't agree with her.=Motivation: She wants to expose all the ills of the universe, no matter what the cost.=Background: Katrina is a news journalist who specializes in uncovering unethical and illegal acts. Unfortunately, she tends to get too attached to her stories and, when going undercover to expose something, often outs herself due to her righteous hot-headedness. Fortunately, the universe is a big place, and when Katrina inevitably gets fired she can always find another network willing to take a chance on her. She is a font of information for adventurers, who often have to bail her out of trouble.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, political, zealot=616***=CJ Millsap=Colorful Aviator="Port stabilizer…check. NavGuide…online. Sense of dread…check. Yeah, we're ready up here, guv!"=Appearance: He wears meticulously clean and polished boots, a worn flight jacket, and a dull red scarf draped over his shoulder. Polarized solar goggles strapped to CJ's forehead push back his sandy blond hair. He pulls on his piloting gloves with a wicked grin.=Roleplaying: CJ has a heavy cockney accent and uses aeronautical terms constantly, even in mundane situations. He's keen to "check six" on a "bird" at the bar and top off with a drink when he's at "bingo fuel."=Personality: Like many pilots, CJ is often too cocky for his own good. He's drawn to the good old days and his ships tend to reflect his personality: brash and jury-rigged. CJ doesn't think ahead and will always take the grander course of action.=Motivation: He's hungry for a life of adventure, the only life he's ever led. Material possessions-beyond something to fly-mean little to him. He craves fame.=Background: Brought up since birth as a spacer by his father, he's always loved flying. Even terrestrial piloting calls to CJ, and he's flown a bit of everything during his years. (His hair is dyed to mask his age somewhat.) CJ favors a ship with "character," regardless of her age or condition, and takes pride in making something out of nothing. The scarf is a lone reminder of his father, since disappeared.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, eccentric, pilot=617***=Kennet Raird=Lecherous Hacker="Why do you care what's on my terminal? I get you past security, you pay me. End of deal."=Appearance: Tall and skinny with greasy brown hair, Kenneth is incredibly pale. He spends all of his time in front of the computer screen. He is unkempt and has a habit of not bathing or changing clothes often enough.=Roleplaying: Kennet is a shut-in whose only connection to the outside world is through the hyper-nets. He uses his incredible computer skills for two reasons: because someone pays him for a particular job and because it satisfies his lust.=Personality: Kennet lives by the idea that if it happens online, he can't be blamed. He is shocked when people insinuate that hacking a locker room camera or downloading a metric ton of alien pornography is somehow disgusting. He is haughty about his abilities, but also about his innocence in all things virtual.=Motivation: Kennet has perverse desires and a need to satiate them. Hacking helps him do that; it also pays his bills.=Background: Kennet turned to computers in order to feed some of the more perverse desires he developed. Some part of Kennet's brain realized that the thoughts he had weren't right and he fostered the illusion that indulging them online kept his hands clean. He developed his hacking skills over many years of trying to get access to more forbidden materials.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, genius, stealthy=618***=Marshal M'Kabi=Honorable Space Cop="You know I can't be a part of piracy, even if that ship has contraband on board. What I can tell you is that targeting here and here should take out their main weaponry and leave them adrift. You'd have about 20 minutes to get on and off that ship before I'd get there."=Appearance: M'Kabi always wears a crisp uniform and has his hair cut to regulation. He's very fit, but a few wrinkles and his salt and pepper hair show his age. While looking somewhat intimidating, he has a smile that immediately puts people at ease.=Roleplaying: He is friendly and enjoys conversing with other people. He is quite good at remembering names, not only of those whom he's met but also their families. M'Kabi never turns down a request for help.=Personality: M'Kabi believes in law and justice and usually puts his faith in the system. He doesn't like to break laws to stop crime, although he won't prevent others from doing so. Indeed, he'll actually aid them as best he can without compromising himself, if possible.=Motivation: He enjoys bringing law and order to the galaxy.=Background: M'Kabi has wanted to be in law enforcement ever since he was a young child on New Nigeria. His father was a Colonial Ranger who patrolled the vast preserves on the planet. M'Kabi decided that he wanted to be a Marshal instead, patrolling the colonial frontier. =Traits: (WC) Pilot, police=619***=Nuan Vaud=Proud Gunner="I'm the best there is. Period. Care to wager on that?"=Appearance: Stocky and heavily muscled, Nuan has a broad face and a nose that's been broken many times. She walks on the balls of her feet, always ready for action.=Roleplaying: Nuan is proud, confident, and quick to anger. She views everything in military terms, and is quick to escalate to violence.=Personality: A veteran of the Bug Wars, Nuan is a hard-bitten badass who takes neither crap nor prisoners. She walks the deck likes she owns the whole damned ship, starts fist fights for relaxation, and is justifiably proud of her talent as a starship gunner.=Motivation: Haunted by the idea that, someday, she might fail at something important, Nuan treats every situation-but especially battles-as if it were a critical turning point in a war.=Background: Nuan fought in the Bug Wars as a soldier and then, when she grew frustrated with the command structure, went AWOL and became a mercenary. She's technically still wanted by the military for her crime, but because she single-handedly took out a bug mothership and over 40 frigates in the war, they've looked the other way thus far; gunners as good as Nuan are hard to come by. With 15 siblings, Nuan learned to distinguish herself at an early age, and her pride is both a strength and a weakness.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, famous, military, warrior=620***=Sergeant Lee Boram=Rule-Bending Cop="I don't care that you have Martian fungi. That is your business. You offer it to kids, it becomes my business. Know how I settle my business? It involves a cattle prod, rubbing alcohol, and one of those genetically-merged spider monkey house cats that hasn't been declawed. It isn't pretty. Understood?"=Appearance: Being overweight, he fits snugly into his ballistics-dampening body suit. His badge number is tattooed over his left eye because perps needed it for police brutality claims, so he decided to make it easier for them to find it.=Roleplaying: Lee is pleasant with people whom he believes to be innocent. He'll bow to people and kiss the back of a ladies' hand with exaggerated good manners. With criminals he becomes mean, and with violent criminals he becomes violent himself.=Personality: Lee has three modes: nice guy, protective authority, and violent thug. Which one emerges depends on whether or not the person he is interacting with is a criminal, and if so, how bad the crime committed is.=Motivation: Lee needs an outlet for his aggressive nature. If he didn't become a cop he probably would have become a criminal himself.=Background: Lee grew up on the mean streets, and when he was busted for theft he was forced to join a juvenile police program meant to scare kids straight. Whether for better or for worse, Lee enjoyed that program and became a cop.=Traits: (PB) Aggressive, charming, notorious, police=621***=Orim the Knowing=Deformed Scholar="I don't even know what the point is of telling you what this artifact does. It's not like anyone here could make another one or repair this one. But since you ask…"=Appearance: Orim is a large man with scarred skin. He sports one crude bionic eye, and his body is hairless save for the tiny tufts of hair sprouting off his head.=Roleplaying: He often mumbles to himself and talks in incomplete sentences. He moans when he moves due to the pain caused by his scarred, taut skin.=Personality: Orim is bitter over the loss of the old world. He clings desperately to it, trying to push out the reality of the current world.=Motivation: Orim strives to find and preserve any relics of the past. If he cannot live in the past, he will surround himself with objects from those days.=Background: Before the Last Day, Orim was a schoolteacher. When the bombs detonated, the blast caught him-but he survived. Instead of fleeing like everyone else, Orim wandered the city gathering up what relics he could. He later settled with a tribe where he teaches people about the old world. He has built up a collection of artifacts, and has built a makeshift museum in a beached ship. He reluctantly allows people to visit his collection. For those he calls friends, he will grudgingly share his knowledge. Anyone who brings him a rare artifact becomes his friend.=Traits: (PV) Ancient, hideous, primal, scholar=622***=Kitty=Maniacal Bounty Hunter="It's time to ride."=Appearance: She wears the full leather biker gear, like so many of her fellow post-apocalyptic road warriors. Her skin is sunburned and her long brown hair is sun-bleached nearly blond. She wears a pair of cat-shaped sunglasses.=Roleplaying: After mounting her motorcycle, she always gives the bike a good luck "kiss" by pressing her fingertips to her lips, then lightly touching the gas cap.=Personality: She is mentally disturbed, as likely to laugh gleefully as she is to growl menacingly. Her moods are mercurial, but she is not a loner. She realizes that to survive, one needs allies. She is loyal to her friends-and an absolute terror to her enemies.=Motivation: Kitty is only concerned with capturing people for money and aiding those in her survival group.=Background: She was once an ordinary homemaker in suburbia. During the terror of civilization's fall, she watched helplessly as her husband and children died at the hands of marauders. She snapped that day and transformed herself into a holy terror, determined to survive as someone who would be immune to fear and would never again be a victim. The kitty-cat sunglasses, which belonged to her daughter, are her only connection to the old world. She lives with a group of other survivors, hiring herself out as a bounty hunter.=Traits: (TT) Outdoorsman, warrior=623***=Drake Handler=Virtuous Trader="Bringing that cargo through the Sagittarius Arm unharmed marks you as a pilot to watch. I'm still amazed that you convinced the Alexandrians to let you off planet."=Appearance: Drake stands 6'3", with chocolate skin, short hair, and bright white teeth. He's overweight thanks to long travel, but still moves with grace.=Roleplaying: Drake stands up straight and focuses on you-not the abstract, not the sale: you. Drake uses his perception to build elegant compliments.=Personality: He is honestly appreciative for the life he leads, and he lives like it.=Motivation: Making things better one step at a time-that's how Drake was raised. Trade is a great way to solve shortages and get goods to those who need them.=Background: Drake grew up an orphan after his parents died in an asteroid mining accident. He was adopted by the Handlers, a pair of successful traders who had plied the lanes for years. He grew to maturity, learning trade at his parents' sides, and soon was contributing to their extraordinary returns with his insight. When he started his own branch of the company, he poured his profits back into charitable donations and orphanages. Perhaps that's why the aliens selected him as one of only three merchants they'd deal with. His exclusive contacts have given him unique insight into their culture, and their trade goods ensure that he has plenty of profit to support his good works.=Traits: (SM) Business, merchant, saintly=624***=Violet Coulomb=Wayward Scientist="Seventeen hours' observation is enough to build a model with a distinct confidence interval."=Appearance: Short and plump, Violet tends towards drab corporate wear or utility suits. Her gray eyes and snub nose lend her personality, as do the red-brown curls in her hair.=Roleplaying: Violet talks with her hands, subconsciously cuing computers with her gestures or drawing graphs in the air.=Personality: For Violet, there's always a more elegant solution; direct action courts notice and often requires more effort. She is excited by the idea that her prototypes might turn into products that spread across the universe.=Motivation: Maintaining her comfortable life requires that she identify or create great products to keep her company afloat. She's out to experience normal life, design solutions that her company can fulfill profitably, and return to her nest.=Background: Violet has always been smart, and she received innovative instruction from a young age. She's a confident problem solver. She was on a path destined for a quiet lab, where she'd plumb the depths of the universe. Now her brilliance is called upon for a different function: She needs to design the next "must have" items and has little experience outside of her corporate controlled environment. =Traits: (SM) Business, mysterious, scientist=625***=Coreen Delmori=Cyborg Pilot="A blockade? Unless the Cabal has developed some new kind of sensor that I've never heard of, and I have seen them all, I can deliver your package."=Appearance: Coreen is a short woman wearing a full exoskeleton. A metal cowl frames her features, its small hooks piercing her skin and locking the cap in place. She has no hair. Her facial skin is weathered and spotted.=Roleplaying: She waves her hand when anyone tries to tell her anything. She uses the phrase "I'm sure" as a reply.=Personality: Coreen has seen and done it all, and she believes she knows what's best. She likes to show off and impress others with her piloting skills.=Motivation: While Coreen tells everyone that she does it for the money, the truth is that she believes she is the greatest pilot alive, and she will never pass up a chance to prove it.=Background: Coreen was born on a space freighter, and her love for flying spacecraft started soon after birth. She started piloting freighters when she was 15 and combat ships for the military at 22. After mustering out, she went into smuggling for no other reason than it was the trickiest type of flying. She has used the money from her runs to purchase every life-enhancing treatment and implant, resulting in the exoskeleton which sustains her organic mass. She will never pass up a chance to fly somewhere dangerous.=Traits: (PV) Ancient, criminal, hideous, pilot=626***=Rachel "Ray Gun" Gunnarson=Genius Inventor="While you were sleeping, I rejiggered your magneto-pneumatic slug projector. It should push about 5.44 megajoules at the muzzle. In language you might grasp, that's the same as an elephant dropped from about three hundred yards."=Appearance: Rachel is a short woman who can often be found humming a popular show tune while bent over a piece of equipment. She wears a stained jumpsuit stuffed to the gills with tools, and a close-fitting pilot's helmet equipped with all manner of lenses.=Roleplaying: Cocky and self-assured when it comes to engineering, she can be a bit dense when it comes to social matters.=Personality: She's fascinated by anything remotely mechanical, so much that she'll "borrow" someone else's gear just to see how it works and if she can improve it.=Motivation: She's addicted to figuring out how things work.=Background: Lost or abandoned in the city at a young age (she doesn't remember), Rachel broke into a train depot to find a place to sleep. She was found the next morning, having spent the entire night reassembling a faulty control box that had been giving one of the mechanics fits. When it worked perfectly, she was adopted by the workers. After a number of years, an inspection discovered her living at the depot, and she was forced to leave. With the references from the depot workers, she's had no trouble finding work, although her tendency to fiddle with other people's mechanisms has caused no end of trouble. =Traits: (KS) Adventurer, crafter, genius=627***=High Priestess Moneyback Guarantee=New Age Weirdo="The universe speaks to us! It talks to us through commerce! And for three easy payments of 99 credits you too can have the latest iMicrocooker that will enable you to better commune with the universe. Plus it broils synthetic beef in under a minute! Buy now and you will be ready to upgrade when the next version is released in a week!"=Appearance: Her holy robes are made from fabrics that display video images of cascading advertisements for numerous products and corporations.=Roleplaying: She speaks in a way that sounds one part gospel and one part commercial. She occasionally sings "hymns" which are actually advertising jingles.=Personality: She is a compulsive buyer, and she has rooms full of consumer goods of every type, many of which she has never even used.=Motivation: She wants to take advantage of the many wonderful limited time offers that life presents her with.=Background: Originally named Mary O'Ryan, she was the sole heir to the O'Ryan Pharmaceuticals and Military Defense Systems corporate empire. Her incredible wealth enabled her to have whatever she desired, but she always had a sense of emptiness. She realized that only shopping made her happy, and after years of intense university study and field research she founded the Church of Immaculate Consumption and Fantastic Bargains. She has acquired many followers, and together they have found joy in each other's purchases.=Traits: (PB) Eccentric, religious, scholar, wealthy=628***=Vacca Artoli=Fringer Naysayer="Don't buy in. Don't log on. Stay off the net. Avoid the machine. Be a person and talk to one."=Appearance: He submits to wearing the discarded clothes of his over-commercialized society, though he patches over the brand names and logos printed on them. His long hair is greasy.=Roleplaying: He will absently rub the scarred flesh of his arm, where he burned away his old company identification tattoo years ago.=Personality: Vacca harbors a deep regret that he cannot provide restitution for the lives he ruined. His hate for commercialized society runs deep.=Motivation: He warns everyone to know that his commercialized and computerized society is evil. He will assist anyone who wants to strike back against it.=Background: He was once a rising star in the conglomerate, a career-minded brand manager. At some point, Vacca was confronted with a choice that required him to betray people he cared about. He did-and their lives were destroyed. Convinced the company, its goals, and its tools were evil, he left. He was pursued by company agents for a long time-he possessed many of their secrets. But eventually he blended into the lost fringes of society. Now he leads a group of rabble, preaching against the evils of the controlling conglomerate.=Traits: (TT) Business, eccentric=629***=Porthos Valentine=Stranded Time Traveler="You mean to say that there's a sort of high-powered steam engine inside this tiny pistol? My word! I'd have given my eyeteeth for one of these back in London."=Appearance: With tousled red hair, bags under his eyes, perpetual stubble, and a confused expression, Porthos always looks somehow out of place.=Roleplaying: Porthos says little until he knows he's among people he trusts. He's clueless about most technology.=Personality: Despite the circumstances, Porthos' natural pluck and adaptability have kept him sane and relatively level-headed. Lacking the familiar command structure and stability of his old job and life, he's a fish out of water-but he's learning quickly. He remains optimistic about being able to make a new life for himself.=Motivation: He wants to give his life meaning and structure again. He needs a job, money, and friends he can trust with his bizarre secret.=Background: Porthos is stranded time traveler, whisked away from Victorian-era London by a temporal anomaly and transported to the present. He's given up hope of returning to his own time, and is trying to make the best of things despite being in over his head. Porthos was a detective, a good one, and those skills are still relevant today. Losing everyone he ever knew or loved was incredibly disorienting and disheartening, and he feels adrift in the modern world. Once grounded again, he could be a valuable, albeit very quirky, ally.=Traits: (MR) Eccentric, police, scientist=630***=Elicia O'Ranen=Violent Marshal="You listen to me! Power down your engines at once, or I swear I will open fire right on your bridge and watch your ship drift into the atmosphere and burn up!"=Appearance: Elicia is of average height. She wears an immaculate police uniform and her long, straight brown hair is pulled back.=Roleplaying: She always offers to solve problems by using violence. She makes threats when confronted, and she slams her hands on the table to make a point.=Personality: A dangerous combination of violence and ambition, Elicia craves power and prefers using violence to get it.=Motivation: The only things that keep Elicia from being a violent criminal are her respect for the law and her desire for the power her position brings.=Background: Elicia was born in a dangerous city where she grew up avoiding physical harm on a daily basis. By her teens, she was more than capable of defending herself from all but the most dangerous criminals. She mysteriously disappeared for three days-an ordeal she never speaks of-before enrolling with the sector police force. Her superiors recognized her hostility and tempered it as much as they could. When she was ready, they assigned her to a dangerous post where only an officer of her temperament would be able to make any difference. While the body count has been high, she has been able to bring some order to her troubled sector.=Traits: (PV) Leader, police, power hungry=631***=Cali DuMall=Frightening Orphan="If you're going to protect me, then who is going to protect you?"=Appearance: Cali is a small, young girl with long, jet-black hair. She wears a simple button-down gown. Her eyes are brown, their large irises and flecked with gold. She clutches a worn teddy bear.=Roleplaying: She's distant and shows little emotion. She speaks softly and in small, halting bits. Cali's pauses are punctuated with a blinking of her eyes. She looks right through people at hidden things.=Personality: Like most children, Cali is shy and withdrawn around strangers. She's not keen to make friends-most don't live very long. She makes profound comments, but her language is still limited. She reacts well to a tender hand and is trusting unless given reason to act otherwise.=Motivation: She wants to help the good people and stop the bad ones before they cause more hurt. She mostly just wants to find her mommy and daddy.=Background: Sadly, Cali's life isn't likely to get any easier. A few years after birth, her psionic abilities manifested-telekinesis and telepathy, among others. The psi-op military intervened, seeing Cali as a valuable commodity. Her parents protested and Cali was forcibly taken away. The trauma inflicted by this separation has turned Cali into a dangerous and unpredictable weapon. She doesn't want to hurt people-like they hurt her-but she desperately wants to escape "the bad men" and find her family. If they're still alive.=Traits: (DM) Child, magical, military=632***=Johnny Reynoldson=Thrill-Seeking Mercenary="Woo-eeee! This battle looks like it's gonna be a good one."=Appearance: Johnny is of average build and wears a black leather jacket tailored to conceal his guns. His brown, wavy hair and devilish smile make him attractive to many people. He is rarely seen without a bottle of booze in his hands.=Roleplaying: Johnny is always up for excitement, danger, and sex. He is constantly moving and never seems to stop. He is the shoot-first-and-ask-questions-while-the-other-guy-is-wounded type, but he always makes time for raunchy encounters with anyone he finds attractive.=Personality: Johnny gets bored quickly and lets you know when he is. He is opportunistic when it comes to his fun, and he is impatient about getting to it.=Motivation: Johnny wants the most enjoyment and excitement possible in any situation.=Background: When Johnny came back from the dead, it was a whole new start on life. That bullet through the chest should have killed him, but all it did was leave him with a kick-ass scar. Since that day, Johnny has felt invincible. He knows his time will come, but he doesn't want to miss a bit of fun waiting for it. Johnny is good at combat and he gets results in tactical situations, even if by unconventional means. This makes most people put up with his hedonistic nature and constant breaches of protocol. =Traits: (JA) Adventurer, eccentric, humorous, military, warrior=633***=Anton Dynast=Multidimensional Doctor="I have to go. No, nothing you need concern yourself with, but I'm getting the hell out of here."=Appearance: Anton has an athletic build, pale skin, and graying hair. His fingers and hair look fuzzy and hazy around the edges.=Roleplaying: Often lost in his own thoughts, Anton sometimes appears to intently watch things that aren't there. He's constantly accepting calls and running off without explanation.=Personality: A medic by profession, Anton is naturally helpful and kind, but his own problem is so impossible to ignore that he gives it top priority.=Motivation: Reversing the process that trapped him across two dimensions is Anton's primary motivation.=Background: Anton was the staff medic for a research team that was studying dimensional rifts and portals. During an experiment, a spontaneous breach in reality pulled Anton into a separate dimension. Though the quick thinking of his team saved him from being lost, he now exists only mostly in his native dimension, extending as well into another nearby dimension. Refusing to be studied or used for scientific reconnaissance, Anton tries to live as normal life as possible while he consults with experts to find a fix for his condition. Anton's desire to solve his problem leads him to consult with anyone who may be able to help at almost any cost, even with those with whom he wouldn't normally associate.=Traits: (MN) Academic, medic=634***=Mykelia "Myke" Stargazer=Sympathetic Investigator="There, the video recorder's disabled. Okay, what'd you do this time?"=Appearance: A professional-looking young woman, Mykelia's badge shows that she works for the investigative arm of the federation. =Roleplaying: She's sympathetic and compassionate, and works to build mutual trust.=Personality: Mykelia's dedicated to her job, and sees herself as a front-line protector of the federation. =Motivation: She wants to identify the larger threats to the government by earning the trust of those who inhabit the gray areas of the law. =Background: Born on a frontier planet, Myke grew up with friends on both sides of the law. But when the raiders came, she saw how they worked together to drive them off. The lesson was not lost on her when her family left the fringe for a safer home in the core worlds. Recruited into the imperial navy, she worked her way into the investigative branch, and has been pursuing her career ever since. She will gladly overlook minor offenses, even major ones, to stop larger ones. Her approach is quite effective; she has two major commendations on her record (one secret). She is also developing quite a network of contacts among independent traders and so-called adventurers.=Traits: (KS) Military, white collar=635***=Harold Dentley=Paranormal Investigator="My foundation studies the science of dimensional convergences. We do not support nor deny evidence of the supernatural. We have discovered many similarities between so-called paranormal events and dimensional phenomenon, though. The data is…disturbing."=Appearance: His hair is snow white, his eyes a piercing blue. He wears a black suit and a turtle neck shirt.=Roleplaying: He has an annoying habit of pointing at the person he is talking to, as if he were commanding them to speak.=Personality: Harold is very serious at all times. He never jokes, and his stoic nature makes it very difficult to determine what if any emotions he feels for a subject.=Motivation: Despite what is conveyed by his cold and emotionless demeanor, he is motivated by a great desire to protect mankind.=Background: Harold Dentley was a pioneer in business who had amassed a tremendous fortune in the financial sector. One night, he had a horrible nightmare that the world was attacked by demons. When he woke up, he saw the ghost of his father in the room. He realized that the nightmare and the visitation were both warnings. His father was trying to tell him something, and no matter how hard he tried to deny it, Harold knew the event was real. Now he is investing all of his fortune into discovering the source of the threat that he foresaw. With the most advance science in the world, his team has made startling discoveries.=Traits: (PB) Dilettante, occult, wealthy=636***=Len Hycel=Gruff Labor Leader="Don't mince words with me. You want help? Fine. I'll help. I can send word to my brothers on Syrel-6. They will help you locate that crashed ship."=Appearance: Len is a middle-aged man with buzz-cut white hair. His body is short and thick; he was born of miner stock. He wears loose clothes to hide the softening of his muscular frame.=Roleplaying: Len has a chronic cough from his mining days. He calls everyone "my friend," and refers to any miners as "brothers." He never minces words and prefers talking in short sentences.=Personality: Len is blunt, a trait he learned from his years mining. He says what he means, and he expects people to hear what he says.=Motivation: Len is loyal to his friends and more so to his fellow miners. He works hard to help miners across the galaxy.=Background: Len was the leader of the Great Miner Revolt, when the miners rose up against their exploitative corporate masters. The revolt, though bloody, was a success, and Len was transformed from upstart miner to leader of a major political force. All miners look up to Len, and would do anything he asks. Len has since left the mines and now travels about the galaxy meeting with his "brothers" and fighting exploitative corporate policies. Today he enjoys a life of wealth, but he never has forgotten where he came from.=Traits: (PV) Famous, laborer, political, wealthy=637***=Quinn Archer=Humble Priest="I can tell you about Him so that you can save your souls. There are others I call upon for martial assistance."=Appearance: Quinn is an older man who wears his vestments over traveling clothes. He often has a scruffy face, as he worries more about others than himself. He projects a grandfatherly image and looks vulnerable, although his slender limbs are surprisingly well-muscled.=Roleplaying: He is soft-spoken and more interested in learning about others than speaking about himself. If asked about the Divine, Quinn becomes much louder and more animated. He acts very disappointed if he needs to resort to violence to resolve a problem.=Personality: Quinn is a servant of the Divine and has a very humble personality. He advocates peace, but understands that there are those that only respond to violence. =Motivation: He wants to save souls and protect the less fortunate from exploitation.=Background: Quinn is a man of the cloth (of whatever faith suits your campaign). He is a humble, peaceful man who abhors violence, although he can protect himself in a fight. He ministers to the downtrodden and isn't afraid to meet their tormentors head-on. If they won't listen to reason, then Quinn has no problem calling on or asking for favors from adventurers to use more direct methods of persuasion. He'll use his medical training to aid friend and foe after a battle.=Traits: (WC) Counselor, medic, religious=638***=Sawyer York=Planetary Stranger="I may never return to my home, but I will fight to my last to see some semblance of freedom for the people of this alien world."=Appearance: Sawyer stands like a hero of old, with a stoic countenance and a jagged, improvised shortsword gripped in his left hand. Stripped to the waist and barefoot, he has bronzed skin and the lean, sinewy musculature of an athlete.=Roleplaying: In contemplative moments, he will shade his eyes with his hand and look longingly to the heavens, remembering his home world.=Personality: He is firm, fair, and of good heart. He welcomes allies in the fight against the world's oppressors. Like his astronaut peers, Sawyer is exceptionally disciplined, intelligent, and practical in his approach to problem solving.=Motivation: His real hope of returning home lies in acquiring the technology of this world's ancient human masters. In the meantime, he will join anyone willing to defy them.=Background: The maiden flight of his rocket ship was caught in some sort of space rift, catapulting it to a planet that could sustain life. A handful of his crew survived the crash, only to find a human population subjugated by a ruling alien elite. All of the crew save Sawyer died in a gambit to steal alien technology that would take them home. Now, he waits for the next expedition to fall through the rift so he can help them avoid the mistakes he made.=Traits: (TT) Military, warrior=639***=Captain Marcus Gunderson=Orderly Soldier="THE REGS ARE THERE TO KEEP YOU ALIVE!"=Appearance: Everything about Captain Gunderson conveys his devotion to order. His hair is neat and short, his uniform always pressed and perfect, and his mustache stops at the regulation length.=Roleplaying: Captain Gunderson does not tolerate anything less than a clean ship, even when he isn't in charge of it. Being assigned as an envoy to private operating ships that are outside the military's jurisdiction hasn't changed this at all. He will critique anything that he feels operates inadequately.=Personality: Stern and disapproving of any kind of chaos, Captain Gunderson is a stickler for order and neatness. His psych evaluations have shown no mental disorders; he just likes things this way.=Motivation: Like almost all sons in a long line of officers, Captain Gunderson wants to uphold his family tradition, and that means making everyone work within expected parameters.=Background: As a young cadet, Gunderson was prompt, neat, and always obeyed orders. He quickly rose in the ranks and became part of the old boys' club of officers. Unfortunately, he proved too good at enforcing the rules and was drafted into a special division of officers who ride along with valuable cargo runs and missions fulfilled by private contractors. Gunderson detests the ragtag ships and crews he is forced to work with. He constantly struggles with captains and crew who refuse suggested changes. He perpetually sneers at the sloppiness with which they operate.=Traits: (JA) Aggressive, military, warrior=640***=Chrome Troose=Famous Entertainer="What do you mean, you can't? Why don't you do some of that sneaking and shooting stuff you're so famous for? I've done it on vid; it's not that hard."=Appearance: Surrounded by a diverse entourage, Chrome is a short but handsome man who waves energetically at his adoring fans.=Roleplaying: He's alternately charming and shockingly arrogant. =Personality: This charming maverick is a bit clueless about the real world. =Motivation: He lives to bask in the attention of others.=Background: The boy who would become a famous media star was born into an abusive family, and took refuge in school dramatic productions. Leaving home, he leveraged a few roles into a truly stellar career. His popularity has had more than a few ups and downs. Recently, his association with a controversial religious organization, along with a few episodes of bizarre public behavior-and rumors of far worse-have resulted in a decline in his popularity and revenue. To this end, he has hired groups of investigators to identify and find proof of those defaming his character so his army of attorneys can sue them. In a risky business move, he has also secretly hired less reputable groups for direct action against his detractors, and aggressively pushes them for tangible results.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, artist, beautiful, eccentric, entertainment, famous, focal, wealthy=641***=Miko Shade=Cybernetically Enhanced Warrior="My body is the perfect weapon. Would you like to experience perfection?"=Appearance: Only Miko's face-thin and pretty, with almond eyes-looks normal. From the neck down, armor plating, dermal webbing, cyberlimbs, and other enhancements make her look more machine than human.=Roleplaying: Miko prefers to let her appearance and attitude speak for her, and says little. During a fight, she takes people apart in eerie silence, not even grunting with exertion.=Personality: She believes that flesh is weak, chrome is strong, and the person with the most chrome wins; most of the time, that's Miko. Before her cybernetic enhancements, Miko was a passable fighter who never would have amounted to much, and she knows it. The artificial elements of her body serve to keep her strong, on edge, and ruthlessly efficient.=Motivation: Miko wants to show others why their flesh is inferior to her augmented body, and she lives for the rush of combat.=Background: Bankrolled by a sinister corporation that keeps her on retainer, Miko is an urban warrior augmented with a fortune in state-of-the-art cybernetics. She has the training, technology, and weaponry to accomplish a wide variety of missions, and the drive to do so under the most adverse circumstances. Quiet and composed, Miko is a living, breathing weapon; unsheathed, she's a terrible wonder to behold.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, aggressive, criminal, stealthy, warrior=642***=Dr. Ingrid Bernheim=Humanitarian Intellectual="Our problems can be solved. We need merely to focus on helping each other to solve these problems instead of blaming each other for them."=Appearance: She is gorgeous, with dark hair and olive skin. She dresses her tall and athletic frame in casual clothes and comfortable sneakers. Close inspection of her eyes reveals them to be bionic implants.=Roleplaying: She listens intensely and, when they would be applicable, asks for examples of what people are telling her.=Personality: She is confident, and inquisitive. She has a genuine interest in meeting other people and learning about their lives.=Motivation: Dr. Bernheim has dedicated her life to teaching others the scientific method, so that they can discover the truth of the universe on their own and contribute to the collective knowledge of humanity.=Background: Ingrid was born blind, and spent her childhood without the sense of sight. The first bionic eyes were developed during her teens, and she was selected as one of the earliest recipients. With time, she adjusted to having sight, and she realized that it was others' dedication to science that resulted in the creation of her eyes. She pursued science with a passion, but she also loved reporting scientific findings to others. A media conglomerate recognized her natural charisma and hired her to be the host of their new educational series. The program was a huge success, and Dr. Bernheim became a household name.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, entertainment, famous, scientist=643***=Arlington Cornelius McMasters=Victorian Time Traveler="Good show. Jolly good. You, my dear sir, would be a credit to her exalted majesty's service-if we were still in England, that is."=Appearance: He is a beefy fellow with a characteristic stiff upper lip. He has thick white hair with ample sideburns, a handlebar mustache, and wears a distinctive monocle. A well-tailored suit, vest, trousers, and shoes of his era complete his look.=Roleplaying: He has a habit of continually checking his fob watch. When about to investigate something tantalizing, he rubs his hands together in anticipation.=Personality: He is dedicated to the safety and good humor of his time traveling companions, encouraging them with wisdom and cheery thoughts. He has a weakness for a sumptuous meal served with fine wines and rich desserts.=Motivation: He is trying to seal the rifts in time that are being exploited by unscrupulous individuals intent on altering realities.=Background: A bon vivant and Royal Navy officer, he was bequeathed a time machine by a well-known author of his day. Initially, he considered each trip something of a lark. Later, he assumed the responsibility he still holds: assembling a team of like-minded time travelers willing to stop those who would reweave the fabric of events to their own ends. It's a cause he's willing to stake his life on-and has, on several occasions.=Traits: (TT) Adventurer, humorous, leader, military=644***=Commander Halley Madrid=Frivolous Ex-Officer="Seriously? That's what you're going with? You know, these breasts aren't just going to fondle themselves."=Appearance: Her short-cropped black hair is pinned under an officer's cap. She wears a modified dark, olive-green officer's jacket that is unbuttoned. A blaster is slung low to one side and her gloved hands fidget with a swagger stick. Blue eyes gleam with a hint of mischief.=Roleplaying: Halley is a smooth talker and is used to dealing with people and sorting through lies. She's a flirt with an impenetrable poker face. Halley laughs off insults and will exchange friendly barbs and cuffs with those she likes.=Personality: Years within the intelligence service have made her adept at maneuvering through the political landscape with ease. She sees danger from multiple angles and weighs risk versus reward accordingly. She'll cut her losses for the greater good without hesitation. Halley has little reason to trust others.=Motivation: Halley is loyal to a cause but rarely to people. A strong leader excites her in many ways. Complete the mission above all else.=Background: Her career cut short by a crime she didn't commit, Halley's intelligence background keeps her well informed. She's done extensive undercover work and as a rule is looking for the worst in every situation; that's her job. The military has hardened her personality more than she knows, but she'll take what she wants from those too blind to see her charms.=Traits: (DM) Charming, focal, military=645***=Keira Faith=Ranger Squad Commander="Why are you ignoring the obvious? The evidence is right in front of you."=Appearance: Keira is small, with a delicate structure and features. She wears a neat, pressed uniform and has meticulously straightened and trimmed hair. Her movements are efficient and straightforward.=Roleplaying: In conversation, Keira is alert for dishonesty and half-truths. She's a master at laying verbal traps to catch others in their own lies. She demands competence from herself, her allies, and those in her employ.=Personality: Keira has a sharp mind and a keen eye for the smallest details. She's capable of holding a problem or puzzle on the back burner for a long period until she reaches a solution, even during stressful situations or when the majority of her attention is elsewhere.=Motivation: Helping her team bring in dangerous criminals drives Keira to put forth her best effort at all times.=Background: Keira had a difficult time in ranger academy due to her small size and slight build, but excelled at deduction. Once she began fieldwork, she became known as a first rate investigator. After solving a string of high profile cases, Keira was given a position as a team commander. Though she isn't enamored with the endless paperwork the position entails, she enjoys supporting her team and assisting in a variety of investigations.=Traits: (MN) Genius, leader, police=646***=Jackson "Dr. Jackie" Lamb, MD=Shady Surgeon="Sure, a million credits and a month in a shiny neurogen clinic'd fix that, but you don't look the type to afford either. How about 10% of your cargo for quick cyber-splice and no more questions asked?" =Appearance: A short, lean woman in a lab coat, Jackson smokes archaic cigarettes and wears a world-weary expression on her face.=Roleplaying: She's curt and sardonic and doesn't seem to care anymore.=Personality: Jackson is cynical and bitter, but secretly works to help the truly needy.=Motivation: She needs money to stay in business, and to keep helping those who need it. She'll help anyone who strikes back against the system.=Background: Dr. Lamb's promising career in cybernetics crashed hard into the unyielding reality of modern business. Concerned over the incidence of cyber-psychosis in a lab trial she was overseeing, she reported her findings and recommended scrapping the research. When the trials continued, she contacted a reporter with her data, but her employer silenced him and ruined her reputation. She escaped to the streets, where a talent with cybernetics can keep one employed and safe. While she seems to be a heartless mercenary, she also secretly treats the poor. She keeps this to herself, both because someone may use it against her and because it's not good business to give away what you charge others a great deal of money for.=Traits: (KS) Criminal, genius, medic, saintly=647***=Risa Unalo=Wisecracking Medic="Wow! Did you see me run though that hail of flechettes to get over to you? Get it? See? Okay, let me get started regenerating your eyes, hold still."=Appearance: Risa is a middle-aged woman, lithe and above average in height. She wears her hair short but in a feminine cut. She prefers jumpsuits or outfits with many pockets. While they are outdated, she wears small wire rimmed glasses.=Roleplaying: Risa makes bad jokes, puns being her favorite-she loves to laugh at them. She has a tender side, which shows when she is treating her patients.=Personality: A bold woman, Risa is willing run into gunfire to save a wounded person. Her courage puts many combat veterans to shame. She channels her fear into her terrible sense of humor.=Motivation: Risa loves the thrill of a good challenge and often takes underpaying jobs if the work is interesting or challenging. She is attracted to danger.=Background: Risa had a normal childhood and was born planet-side. She attended medical school and received honors. She turned down a lucrative hospital posting for work on a deep space freighter. Over the years, she has changed ships, been a medic in several skirmishes, and once single-handedly rescued an orbital colony from a viral outbreak. Her patients often groan more over her jokes than her careful medical treatment.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, humorous, medic=648***=Kline Alto=Connected Drunkard="Baby, can you read minds? No? That's good, ‘cause my thoughts are too dirty for that pretty ass of yours! <hic>"=Appearance: He smells of urine and vomit-possibly his own-and wears a dirty leather duster over his wide, squat frame. Both of his chins are covered in stubble, and he has bloodshot eyes and breath that could jumpstart a drive engine. His grin shows nasty, yellow teeth.=Roleplaying: Kline is a drunkard and is constantly trashed, slurring his words. He'll stumble on occasion or barf a little while talking. He's a model of the uncouth and always says the wrong thing at the wrong time.=Personality: Kline doesn't care about others' opinions of him; he jettisoned pride long ago.=Motivation: He will do what it takes to get that next drink. He's only looking out for himself, but underneath his anguished liver is a heart of gold.=Background: Kline knows just about everyone, and his near-permanent presence in the bars gives him access to unfettered information that he barters for drinks. He's a decent fence and has solid contacts-the drunkard persona is a bit of a gag on his part. Mostly, no one pays him any mind, but he is sometimes hauled in for questioning by the local authorities. He has a nice nest egg stashed away for a rainy day. Kline knows a bit about everything and is the perfect point man to disseminate opportunities that he's overheard.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, focal, notorious=649***=Dr. Ellsworth Iandan=Connected Scientist="I have friends, popular friends that can present you in any light I wish. Reconsider your approach."=Appearance: Ellsworth's skin has a sparkle, he stands tall and straight, and his dark tousled hair inspires envy in many. In holo, Dr. Iandan just appears more real-more solid and three-dimensional-than most of his peers. =Roleplaying: Dr. Iandan is beautiful, but cool and reserved, always posing-never slumping in relaxation or relief. His smile is precise and technical, unless he's laughing at someone.=Personality: Ellsworth has a long memory, remembering those he helped (and exactly how), and the exact measure he owes others.=Motivation: After years of being ignored, Iandan's formula delivered dreams to friends and associates. In turn, they are helping him establish himself in the media landscape.=Background: Doctor Iandan spent his twenties slaving for a cosmetics company, where he made a breakthrough. He blackmailed his boss, bought out his contract, and took his discovery to the alleys of the entertainment district. One by one, he took promising talents, provided his formula, and got them established in news and video-dependent on him for his clarity-providing silica orientation treatments. His treatments are spreading through the industry slowly-as much as he loves the money and favor, he knows it's only a comparative advantage. If he sold it widely, big companies would clone it.=Traits: (SM) Beautiful, entertainment, scientist=650***=Princess Tamena=Exotic Royalty="I've never seen a ship this big. My planet's biggest is half the size of your cargo ship, Captain."=Appearance: Tall and fair, Princess Tamena is everything a princess is supposed to be. She is demure and coy, with a touch of innocence out of place in the rough galaxy in which she travels.=Roleplaying: Princess Tamena's pampered and pastoral lifestyle has left her unprepared for the rigors of traveling in space. Luckily, her shyness and pleasant personality draw people willing to help her out.=Personality: The princess has an undeniable genuineness about her, and her soft voice engenders a protective response in others. She only wishes to do right by those who help her, and she grieves at any who come to harm because of her naivety.=Motivation: Princess Tamena is one of hundreds of provincial princesses traveling at the request of the empress to see if they are worthy of succession to the throne.=Background: Princess Tamena has little care for the affairs of the galaxy. She enjoys the quiet life she and her family have on their small pastoral planet. Taught to rule her subjects with utmost kindness and humility, Princess Tamena would bring millennia of peace as the next empress, if she survives the journey. Many wish to influence the succession process, even resorting to murder. Weak physically, her position and demeanor are enough to cut most red tape or deny inspectors entrance to a ship.=Traits: (JA) Beautiful, child, royalty=651***=Chelle "k{AO}s" Greer=Cocky Hacker="This thing's better protected than I thought it would be, but who cares. I can hack anythi-"=Appearance: Chelle has bright pink hair, wears blood-red contacts, and has swirling lines tattooed on her face. She dresses just as outlandishly.=Roleplaying: Chelle loves to show off, especially when she's hacking, and turns every job into an opportunity to pull flashy stunts. She's cocky without being annoying about it.=Personality: "k{AO}s" lives on the edge, spending as much time jacked in and hacking as possible; she's not fond of the time she's forced to spend in the real world. Danger is her favorite thing. Nothing makes her happier than discovering she's in over her head-which is fortunate, because despite her considerable skills, she doesn't know when to stop. There's a charm to her that's hard to pin down but just as hard to deny.=Motivation: Chelle loves the feeling of breaking into a secure system, stealing what she came for, and getting out clean. She's driven to pursue ever more challenging jobs.=Background: A hacker for hire, Chelle is talented, strangely charming, and has an outsized view of her own skills. On several occasions, she's pushed herself too far and succeeded, bringing in huge sums of money in the process; other times, she's barely escaped with her life as lethal intrusion countermeasures forced her to jack out before being killed.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, charming, crafter, criminal, scientist=652***=Epcar Ronk=Confident Mercenary="Look, you can do it my way or die by their gunfire. Your choice. I plan to live."=Appearance: Strong and muscled, there can be no denying that Ronk was built for combat. Ronk wears a gray combat vest and always has a gun strapped to his thigh. The only thing unimposing about Ronk is his friendly voice and slightly devious smirk.=Roleplaying: He's a friendly lug, but he isn't stupid. He guides his strength and speed with combat-honed precision and careful, lighting-quick planning.=Personality: Confident and strong, Ronk is always friendly and supportive of his teammates, and has a knack for spreading his confidence to them.=Motivation: Ronk knows his talent for combat, and while he understands he is good at it, he doesn't understand his innate intelligence. He just seeks to use the skills he has to keep him and his comrades alive.=Background: You won't find him reading philosophy books or poetry, but the practical knowledge in his head could become the next Art of War. This is all hidden deep behind Ronk's good-natured, salt-of-the-earth personality, his wall of muscles, and his multiple holsters bristling with guns. Ronk doesn't show an ounce of the bloodlust that other mercenaries do. In fact, his strategies focus on tactical victory and attempt to avoid high body counts. He often looks out for weaker comrades and has developed a close protective friendship with a pilot Tanseer Patrella.=Traits: (JA) Genius, military, warrior=653***=Cardinal Esi=Spiritual Advisor="Do not tell me about the miracles recorded in the Bible and then expect me to deny the miracle of alien life which God has brought before us. The literal interpretation of the scriptures is the fool's way of denying the glory of God's love."=Appearance: He wears the traditional black simar, scarlet fascia, and scarlet zucchetto of a Catholic cardinal. On his right wrist he wears a bracelet from his native tribe in Nigeria. His dark skin accentuates his brilliant smile.=Roleplaying: He folds his hands together in front of him when he speaks, and offers blessings to others out of a sincere desire to help them in their endeavors.=Personality: Cardinal Esi is a man of great faith and devotion to his spiritual studies. He is kind and generous, but will take a stand against those who abuse others.=Motivation: He wishes to help world leaders make the right choices as mankind begins its first intergalactic communications.=Background: Raised to be a devout Catholic, he followed his calling to become a priest and has never regretted it. He spent many years traveling the African continent working hard to bring peace to some of the most violent territories in the world. When alien transmissions were discovered, he began to counsel people whose natural reactions were fear and worry. He is now sought by others to help in making our first contact with alien beings a peaceful one.=Traits: (PB) Counselor, genius, religious=654***=Felicia Cosmoline=Closeted Psychic="Where we go, they go. Each of us has our own custom version of the bacteria, identifying heredity and planetary origin via mutations."=Appearance: Felicia is thin and medium height with frizzy hair. She has raccoon eyes from missed sleep and graduate studies.=Roleplaying: She wears gloves or claims smeared hands to avoid contact-standing polite and welcoming, but reserved. She takes a drink of water before each new reply, but her voice is always soft.=Personality: There's always another level of reservation to Felicia; she's cautious and hesitant.=Motivation: She fears taking others' thoughts in, knowing that they'll loom large at night, when her conscious mind's defenses are down.=Background: Felicia suffered terrible nightmares in her earliest youth. In time, the nightmares dwindled, as Felicia taught herself rules to avoid setting off her psychic sensitivities. By the time she was in graduate studies, she'd ingrained the patterns so deeply that she rarely touched another's mind. That is, until her friend was kidnapped and Felicia decided she'd do anything to get her back. The nightmares came back, but she was able to provide the detectives with good enough "hunches" that they seriously debated her involvement. They still come to her for help on complicated cases, amazed at the analysis that she can coax from her instruments.=Traits: (SM) Abhorrent, police, scientist=655***=Kraig Sawamura=Talented Company Man="Do not beg. Do not try to offer me money. You have not offended me, you have offended the corporation, and the corporation has sent me to address the situation."=Appearance: Dark-skinned with a square jaw and a stylish short haircut, Kraig's eyes are custom-made and expensive. =His average-height body is heavy with tremendous musculature. His manicure is a perfected contrast to his scarred knuckles. His suits are bespoke.=Roleplaying: Kraig holds himself chest-out and shoulders squared. He speaks slowly, with a calm tone, no matter the situation. When he does react, it is fast and direct.=Personality: Kraig is a rare blend of exceptional skill, intellect, and blind commitment to the corporation. He regards his work with great pride. He will never cut corners, regarding it as shabby work.=Motivation: Kraig serves the corporation with a white-hot intensity. The corporation is his life.=Background: Kraig was born into the corporation, to high-level executive parents who could afford extensive genetic modifications. By age 20, he had his choice of offers within the company; he chose security. He showed great skill at wet-work; he proved to be a true weapon for the corporation. His years in security have given him numerous contacts and friends in all parts of the galaxy. He would never work against the corporation, and he is happy to help any efforts against its rivals.=Traits: (PV) Business, warrior, zealot=656***=Light-of-Dawn Farseer=Indigenous Visionary="Praise the Highest, and all his prophets! These are the angels from beyond the sky, sent to save us!"=Appearance: An ancient woman who smiles a near-toothless greeting at those she meets, she wears a necklace made of animal claws. Diodes are braided into her silver hair, and she holds a shaman's staff made from a carbon fiber spar, decorated with feathers, wire, and memory crystals. =Roleplaying: Her speech is littered with references to a vast history of obscure prophecies, which apparently are coming true.=Personality: An eternal optimist, she is honored to be present at the fulfillment of many of her culture's prophecies.=Motivation: She has dedicated her life to leading her people to the destiny awaiting them.=Background: Born into the interplanetary equivalent of a "cargo cult" tribe, the youngest of the Farseer clan gained an early reputation for prescience. She was chosen by the previous shaman, and learned the rituals and prophecies under him, taking on the mantle when he passed away. She has served her tribe for decades, guiding them through many hardships with the promise of better days ahead. And now, just as her people are in their darkest hour, she leads them with hope and optimism that the prophetic angels from beyond the sky will sweep in to save them. It's hard to say how much of this is real prophecy, and how much of it is rhetoric or social manipulation.=Traits: (KS) Ancient, impoverished, leader, outdoorsman, primal=657***=Val D'Ariese=Combat Medic="You've got all of two seconds to drop that pack or I'll shoot you between the T2 and 3 vertebrae faster than you can say ‘intervertebral foramina!'"=Appearance: A dark-skinned woman, she wears a worn combat suit, stitched and repaired in several areas. A medical armband on one shoulder is faded, as is the paint on her breastplate. A medical field kit is slung over one shoulder, and across the other is a large-caliber combat rifle. "Mercy incoming!" is painted on the barrel.=Roleplaying: Val talks sharp and loud, using all manner of slang. She's abrupt and will get into a person's face with her no-nonsense attitude.=Personality: She doesn't back down but does listen to reason. Val is apt to compromise when it'll help her save lives. She realizes to save a life sometimes costs a life. Fear of death isn't in her emotional vocabulary. Her intense drive often puts her at odds with cautious thinkers.=Motivation: She's dedicated to her companions and her role as a protector of lives. She's dead serious about her responsibility.=Background: As part of the 22nd combat expeditionary force, Val has seen a lot of front-line combat, including some of the bloodiest. She's a marine through and through and now offers her talents to those in need. She has to count on her squad and doesn't tolerate dissent or disobedience. Val will die for her companions and demands the same loyalty in return. Semper Fidelis!=Traits: (DM) Aggressive, medic=658***=Lexa Anjaliani=Alien Intermediary="The time of the melding is imminent. We must prepare-or perish."=Appearance: Her features are human, except for her skin, which has an ochre hue from the process she underwent to make it resistant to the radiation of an alien sun. The only hair on her skin is very fine, almost invisible, so she appears to be bald and without eyelashes. She wears a form-fitting bodysuit of alien manufacture.=Roleplaying: All her interactions seem a bit off. Lexa's mannerisms suggest someone who is playing at being human, akin to the forced movements an amateur actor might exhibit on the stage. Her speech patterns are stilted.=Personality: She has an alien mindset. She does not think of herself as human, though genetically, she is. Lexa is fully capable of exhibiting the same range of emotions as any person, but has been trained to be aloof and distant. But if it serves her mission, she will attempt to experience the fullness of the human condition. She tries to be helpful.=Motivation: Lexa serves as an ambassador from an alien species that will "inevitably" integrate biologically and socially with humanity.=Background: She is a human hybrid generations removed from her original human ancestors, who first encountered the aliens in deep space. She, like others of her kind, have been sent to humanity's interstellar outposts to pave the way for the "melding."=Traits: (TT) Counselor, eccentric=659***=Kirtai Destanis=Ruthless Protector="I don't care. I fight for survival."=Appearance: Tall and wiry, Kirtai's long black hair is tied back in a ponytail. His sun burnt face shows his weariness, and a scar runs down his cheek. He dresses in clothing fit for a hot desert planet.=Roleplaying: Kirtai is fierce and cold, doing whatever is necessary to achieve his goals. He will work with others and support them if needed, but his planet's survival is his main goal.=Personality: He rarely smiles; his mind is too full of the horrors of war and the fierce blood-filled strategies that allow him to defend his planet.=Motivation: Kirtai is trying to track down the remnants of the aliens who invaded his home world.=Background: Having lived through an alien invasion and occupation, Kirtai understands the horrors that come with invading forces. One of the first to strike back, he captured an alien ship and fought to free his planet, but he gave up much of his humanity to do so. Many hard decisions had to be made, and many other ships needed to be sacrificed to hold the line. In the end, it was Kirtai's uncompromising and bloody tactics that helped save the planet. He has gotten information that the aliens are still out there are and are planning a new offensive. Though Kirtai's goals are noble, he cares little for the horrors he causes others. All that matters is that his planet avoids becoming a bloody wasteland again.=Traits: (JA) Military, warrior, zealot=660***=Sister Ava Cassidy=Badass Recruiter="Move it! Move it! Move it! How do you expect to get to heaven if you can't even get off your ass?"=Appearance: Sister Cassidy wears bulky, scarred, and dented power armor emblazoned with religious symbols. Her head is shaved and embedded with an array of implants.=Roleplaying: Loud and high-energy, Sister Cassidy is a fanatic about her religious order. She takes every opportunity available to proselytize.=Personality: Ava is a first-class hard ass. She's tough as nails and doesn't brook any insult, affront, or questioning of her abilities.=Motivation: Sister Cassidy lives for converting others to her faith and recruiting them for her unit.=Background: A member of a strict, martial religious order, Sister Cassidy travels far and wide kicking ass, taking names, and enticing others to join her crusade. Her intense devotion gives her access to crude but effective mental powers, and her martial abilities and equipment are formidable. Her position technically includes giving guidance to those in need as well, though her advice generally boils down to "Quit whining, get off your ass, and do something about it." Ava's order is currently undergoing a struggle to change doctrine, which she zealously opposes. To keep her out of the way during the transition, she has been stationed at the order's most remote and isolated missionary posts.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, aggressive, counselor, magical, military, religious, warrior, zealot=661***=Tanseer Patrella=Self-Doubting Pilot="Uh, yeah, sure. Setting in a course now."=Appearance: Slightly portly, Tanseer is average-looking in most ways. His chubbiness serves only to further his personal issues with meekness.=Roleplaying: Without an order, Tanseer stays quiet and out of the way. He doesn't like to stir up the waters and has little confidence in his skills, despite the fact that they have saved the ship from crash or capture time and again. When Tanseer is told to do something, he focuses fully on doing that perfectly.=Personality: Tanseer is constantly depressed and self-deprecating. He doesn't display much motivation or gusto. He won't show his depression overtly, but he doesn't cover it well either. He tries to seem happy and fit in, but rarely succeeds.=Motivation: He is motivated by his desire to not screw things up, a paranoia birthed in his childhood.=Background: Tanseer grew up as one of 20 children in a poor farming family. Not physically built for the labor of the farm, Tanseer was berated by his father and left alone by his mother. He tried to do what he could, driving the tractors and running machinery, but his paranoia and nervousness caused him to mess things up time and again. Everyone was surprised when he scored high enough on a skills test for a pilots' school scholarship. He excelled in practical and academic tests and was quickly picked up by a cargo freighter, but has never shaken his self-doubt.=Traits: (JA) Focal, impoverished, pilot=662***=Doctor Volcano=Rebellious Inventor="Taste the volcano, government pig!"=Appearance: Carrying his trademark "volcano gun," Doctor Volcano wears a long black coat and a black beret. He has fiery red hair and a red goatee, and wears red-tinted goggles.=Roleplaying: Doctor Volcano never does anything small, from shouting and gesticulating wildly when merely talking would do, to parachuting out of a zeppelin when he could just have walked.=Personality: Not fond of authority (or normalcy), Doctor Volcano loves to take on governments, large organizations, and anyone else with more power and resources than him. He thrives on his underdog status, and likes nothing better than an unfair fight. He's curious by nature, and is always working on at least six inventions at once.=Motivation: He wants to stick it to the Man hard, often, and in exciting ways. His agenda is more about being a rebel than actually bringing about social change.=Background: Doctor Volcano is a genius turned crackpot inventor turned rebel without a cause. He finds science boring unless it's done in the service of creating something flashy and explosive (like his "volcano gun," an oversized brass pistol that, somehow, shoots magma), and as long as he feels like he's fighting "oppression"-and having fun doing it-he's happy to go along with even the stupidest plans. He's a genuinely brilliant inventor, and if properly channeled he can be a useful ally.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, crafter, eccentric, genius, humorous, scientist=663***=Brother Artemas=Battle Monk="Fear not, friends. The Creator stands with us today, for today we shall find Enlightenment upon the field of battle!"=Appearance: Over six feet tall and with broad shoulders, he wears only plain robes that mark his station as a brother of the order. Upon his shaven head are tattoos of the order that explain the broadsword at his side. His gray eyes squint menacingly.=Roleplaying: The brother-like many of his order-is trained to fight when called upon. He is reserved and speaks humbly of his role, but returns force in kind.=Personality: A gentle giant most of the time, Artemas was raised for combat, seen by his people as a necessary path to justice. He is deeply spiritual, attending to the Creator's needs, but even the Creator understands the necessity to protect the weak and innocent through force.=Motivation: To serve the Creator, to protect the faithful, and to do honor upon your charge constitute the goals of the brotherhood and, therefore, Artemas.=Background: The order is known worlds over as the fighting clergy of the Creator, and is not to be trifled with. The brothers have fought in many major conflicts and field their own fleet. Artemas was raised by the monks as their own and entered into a life of service to the Creator, to whom he is dedicated. The politics of the order sometimes weigh heavily on his mind, and he is often the lone voice of dissent. He takes his assignments-sometimes as a bodyguard-seriously, however.=Traits: (DM) Religious, saintly, warrior=664***=Dr. Zandra Evora=Quirky Professor="It's not that I have the ability to see the future, it is that my brain is calculating a nearly infinite number of decision trees at the same time."=Appearance: Zandra is very skinny despite a healthy appetite. Her limbs are long and loose, and her short hair is tousled.=Roleplaying: She politely interrupts people while they are talking, as soon as she has had a thought. She has no volume control, and lacks any awareness about how people perceive her.=Personality: Zandra is a shrewd and cautious person. The nature of her gift requires her to think through decisions as she calculates an infinite number of choices. This makes her very uncomfortable when rushed.=Motivation: Dr. Evora loves her work. She has a passion for mathematics and logic that borders on obsession. She often forgets to eat and sleep while working on a complex problem.=Background: Zandra was an intelligent child. In middle school, she was selected for an experimental hyper-education course where knowledge was encoded into her brain through quantum manipulation. The experiment was a success, and gave her a brain wired for complex mathematics. This manipulation came with a price, and Zandra lost the ability to perceive any social cues. Despite her lack of social skills, Dr. Evora has obtained a prestigious university position. She leaves the university to address any problem whose challenges require her gift.=Traits: (PV) Academic, eccentric, genius, scholar=665***=Ram Netinhau=Xenoarchaeological Explorer="You might think the people of Morris VII were starkly different, given their aquatic heritage, but they too yearned to visit the stars."=Appearance: Ram is a confident man with a prominent chin, olive features, and a brief black mustache paired with a chin patch. He is 54, and tends to wear kilts or elegant robes when entertaining.=Roleplaying: Doctor Netinhau is engaging, sweeping his arms expansively, or standing beside you and turning so that he can point out at the horizon before both of you. His voice is cultured, low, and filled with academic observations.=Personality: There's always a plan, a way to beat the odds, rolling around in Ram's head. If he offers a challenge, it's one weighted his way.=Motivation: Ram wants to outsmart the universe-or at least his competitors. Research and xenoarchaeology are fascinating, but don't pay well.=Background: Ram is a treasure seeker, particularly interested in old monuments and ruins. His superior scholarship helped him find a lost planet, whose extensive ruins have since been secretly mined by a corporation he founded. He parlayed his discovery into a small university dedicated to analyzing the ruins and the culture that left them.=Traits: (SM) Academic, business, scholar, wealthy=666***=Captain Amanda Siren=Daredevil Thrill Seeker="Lost both engines, emergency systems are shot, and the life support batteries are draining fast from the damage. You ever seen someone do a controlled crash drop through an atmosphere? Well, you're about to. I love this job!"=Appearance: Her statuesque body and honey-colored hair give her the presence of a fashion model, despite the eye patch.=Roleplaying: She leans back in her chair and props her feet up on the console of her star cruiser. She likes to wink at both men and women with her good eye, just to keep them guessing.=Personality: She is confident and sultry. She is sexy and she uses that to her advantage. Yet she is also smart and tough and knows how to handle herself.=Motivation: She has lived a life of luxury and she found it utterly boring. Now she is pursuing her true passion, which is to explore uncharted space on very edge of the known frontier.=Background: Amanda came from a wealthy family. She was expected to marry well and nothing more. That all changed when she was on a starship that was struck by an asteroid and crashed on a hostile planet. She lost her eye in the crash, but she found her backbone and led the survivors until a rescue party arrived. She cashed in her trust fund, bought her own star cruiser, and has never looked back.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, beautiful, leader, pilot=667***=Jimena Okendo=Naïve Physicist="The scientists in my working group all believe in the same thing. We're doing this for the betterment of us all. I can't image any of them seeking personal gain."=Appearance: Jimena has long black hair, fair skin, and dresses smartly in fine clothes. At work, she can be found with a lab coat over her outfit.=Roleplaying: She always greets her friends and associates at the lab, as well as members of her family, with a kiss on the cheek.=Personality: She is outgoing and friendly, which is in line with her idealistic nature. Jimena thinks the best of people, trusting them implicitly, and is often shocked when it's revealed others don't act as altruistically as she does. If there is a good cause, she's always willing to help.=Motivation: She wants to be a part of a grand discovery that will make a difference in the lives of millions.=Background: She is a physicist born into a family of scientists. Her grandfather was a pioneer in his field and her mother and father were both chemists of note. Once she proved her own aptitude in the field, she went to work at a leading physics lab, where she is now a leading researcher. On the side, she is part of a "free energy" working group, which hopes to make independent contributions in nuclear fusion.=Traits: (TT) Academic, scientist