Falsely Accused*One of the PCs' friends is arrested and charged with leading a group of bandits who operate out of a nearby forest. He was found unconscious next to the bodies of three slain woodsmen, covered in their blood, with evidence of a recently abandoned bandit camp in the area. He's innocent, but while the local lord is inclined to believe the man there's little he can do: The evidence is compelling enough that the populace expects him to execute the accused man. The accused implores the PCs to go into the dark, dangerous woods and find proof of the real bandit leader's identity-or better yet, bring him to justice. The lord allows them one week to do this.*The real bandit leader lives in the city-he's actually a villainous noble, and makes regular visits to the woods in disguise to lead his band of thugs on vicious raids. He framed the accused man because the bandits had-without permission-stolen from a local baron whose fortune was made in timber; the slain woodsmen were the baron's men. If the plot goes as planned, the noble won't face any retribution from the baron.*The forest itself presents several complications. A centaur tribe is part of what makes it a dangerous place: They attack travelers with little provocation, and are deadly archers with an intimate knowledge of the land. They dislike the bandits, and if suitably convinced they would aid the PCs in finding the bandit camp. The bandits themselves will also oppose the PCs. As a noble, their leader was in court when the accused man asked for the PCs' help. He has tipped off the bandits, who will arrange an ambush.*If the PCs investigate the woodsmen, the baron will meet with them. He explains that the bandits stole from him, and he wants them dead. He also reveals a clue to the real leader's identity: He saw one of the bandits astride a horse he would have sworn he once spotted in the noble's stable.*Suitable proof can be obtained by coercing the bandits into spilling the beans about their leader, or by gaining entry to the noble's house. With him distracted or incapacitated, the PCs will easily find his stolen goods. He'll be put up for execution as the real bandit leader, and their friend will be released with compensation from the local lord.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) investigative, politics, stealth, villain==The Grindstone*Technology is rare and those who have it, even in its simplest form, have power. The miller in a remote village has gained power over the villagers by charging high amounts for milling their grain into flour. Recently the miller has decided that only customers who bear his mark are allowed to use his services. Some villagers have refused to cooperate and mill their own grain (at a slower rate and in smaller amounts), but the majority of the villagers comply and now bear a scar on the back of their right hand.*The miller is a necromancer who has tampered with the flour. People who eat products made with this tainted flour slowly fall under the miller's spell; the scar on a villager's hand is a sign that the villager is completely under the miller's control. Villagers who refuse to use the miller's services are taken in the middle of the night by his drones and are sacrificed to provide blood with which the miller sanctifies the grindstone.*To kick off the adventure, one of the PCs eats some bread made with the miller's tainted flour and then begins behaving strangely, the PCs are treated as outcasts for not having the mark of the miller, or the PCs rescue someone from being sacrificed by the marked villagers.*This plot is best used as a one-shot adventure while traveling as part of a larger story arc. The PCs encounter a mob of marked villagers (two to three per PC) and, regardless of how that conflict is resolved, it puts the PCs on the miller's radar. Next, the marked villagers try to kidnap the PCs for sacrifice (if the PCs are on the offensive at this point, they interfere with the kidnapping attempt of another villager). The marked villagers are better prepared this time, and the evil magic may have boosted their natural abilities beyond normal levels.*Encounters with the miller outside of the mill should be brief. His mill is heavily guarded by marked villagers. Inside the mill, the miller has a small army of villagers who have become ghouls and zombies. The miller will use necromantic magic in combat. When playing the miller, be arrogant and take foolish risks when fighting the PCs. Actions that threaten the grindstone will cause the miller to act with caution, though, as the grindstone is the secret to his power.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) city, innocent, investigative, magic, tactical planning, trade, villain==The Price of Glory and Fame*A bag of bloody clothing is dropped off in town with a ransom note attached, and the garments are recognized as belonging to a famous party of adventurers who disappeared weeks ago. The party was last seen by the townsfolk fending off a vicious pack of monsters who were stealing their goods. People around town can be heard lamenting the fate of these brave souls, and there is much talk about the epic battle that ended when one of the adventurers threw a bomb into the fray. When the smoke cleared, the monsters were gone.*To the townsfolk, the adventurers are heroes. In truth, they're frauds: The adventurers and the monsters worked together to stage the whole scene. First, the monsters harassed the town. Afterward, the party arrived and offered to save the day for a fee that was equal to the task of rescuing the entire populace. The people gave everything they could and the con was almost a complete success. However, even after taking the money and making a clean escape, the swindlers weren't done swindling: The party of adventurers attempted to cut out without giving the monsters their take. Some of the party members escaped with the money, but the monsters were able to capture a few of them and are holding them for ransom in a cave outside of town.*A hooded man approaches the PCs and asks for their help. He is one of the adventurers who escaped the grasp of the monsters. Instead of fleeing with his share of the money, he wants the PCs to help him rescue the adventurers, and promises a reward to sweeten the pot. The hooded man asks that they set out immediately.*In traveling to the cave, the PCs are ambushed by monsters that seem to have been tracking the hooded man. The hooded man immediately kills any creature that looks like it's about to talk. A torn and bloodstained piece of paper can be found on one of the creatures, written in a pidgin of the creature's language and a common language. The message is hard to read, but says things like "money town attack," a date and time, and "planned run on smoke flash."*The PCs reach the caves, which should be as labyrinthine as the adventure requires. In the deepest section the adventurers are tied up as the monsters' leader gloats over them. If the PCs confront him, he asks for the ransom and warns the PCs not to underestimate his intelligence or betray him like the adventurers did. The hooded man jumps in, trying to prevent the monster's leader from saying too much.*The PCs might fight the monster leader and find out about the adventurers' treachery; the adventurers will attempt to bribe or kill them to keep them quiet. Alternately, the PCs might pay the ransom and be given the adventurers, still tied up, to blackmail or do with as they please. No matter what, the adventurers are full of resentment and will do anything to keep their treachery hidden.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) betrayal, combat-heavy, exploration, investigative, shady, siege, stealth, tactical planning, twist==A Peaceful Death*The PCs, who are well-established and have a heroic reputation, are visited by an ancient creature of considerable power. The creature is dying of natural causes, and its death will come soon. Two of the creature's enemies, a mighty warrior and his arcane companion, have sensed its weakness, and wish to capture it in order to sacrifice it and gain its vast power.*This creature should inspire awe in the PCs both because of its power and its importance in their world, like a kind and noble dragon that has safeguarded a holy site for centuries, and this plot will be more engaging for your players if the PCs have encountered the creature before. It's important to stress to the PCs, through the creature, how bad it would be for the mighty warrior to gain the creature's power.*The creature asks the PCs for protection so that it may die in peace. The party must find a location where the creature can expire that can be easily defended, such as the creature's lair or the PCs' own stronghold. The PCs must fortify the location against possible attackers.*The warrior sends emissaries to the PCs to bargain for the creature's release, but the emissaries are a feint, and the warrior's minions launch a sneak attack to capture the creature. The PCs foil this attempt.*After the first attack, a stranger approaches the location. The stranger is a long-lost lover of the creature, who has come to be with the creature before it dies. The PCs must figure out who the lover is, and that it isn't a threat, and then escort it to the creature.*The warrior then mounts one final attack, this time with a larger force that includes himself and his arcane companion. At some point after the last attack, the creature dies. Its death should be a peaceful one that denotes not the ending of a mortal life, but the creature's passing to an immortal realm-one where the creature will await the PCs one day, in gratitude.*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) monster, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, siege, tactical planning, villain*Deliverance==Power Vacuum*The heroes are in a remote town and have recently vanquished a local threat, such as monsters or bandits. As they depart, they meet a man on the road who's heading in the direction from which they came. They strike up a conversation with the man, and find out that he's a mercenary who is heading to the remote town because he heard that there was trouble in the area. After a bit of conversation, the heroes continue on their travels.*Weeks later, after completing a quest, the PCs come back by way of the remote town. As they near the town, a group confronts them and demands tribute: a highway tax imposed by the new warlord of the area. The PCs will learn from the group that the warlord is the mercenary who they passed on the road, weeks ago.*When the heroes confront the warlord, he explains to them that the threat they vanquished was only an advance guard, and that others followed to avenge the fallen. For protection, the townsfolk turned to the mercenary, who then took over the town. He thanks the PCs for creating the situation that has made him the warlord.*The warlord rules with a heavy hand and is filling his coffers through crippling taxes and highway tariffs. The town is dying under his rule, and the people are suffering. The heroes must decide how to deal with the warlord and deliver the town from the suffering that was caused, indirectly, by their actions.*Before the PCs confront the warlord, another wave of the local threat that they vanquished before mounts an attack-one that might be too much for the PCs to handle. Do the PCs make the warlord an ally and receive his aid, or do they vanquish him and face the threat alone?*This plot works best if you set it up during a previous adventure, and then complete it after running another adventure. The situation creates a sense of cause and effect for your players, as it was their initial actions that caused the town to suffer. It's important that you make the conversation on the road with the mercenary memorable-and it's ideal if the heroes figure out the warlord's identity before you tell them.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (PV) alliance, combat-heavy, difficult choice, innocent, isolated area, villain==Desperation on the River*While sheltering in an isolated river town during their travels, the PCs learn that the town is in dire straits. Run by a retired adventurer, the town has long been plagued by a tribe of ogres that lives on the far side of the river. A week ago, the ogres raided the town and kidnapped several children; in retaliation, the townsfolk attacked the ogres and slew several of them-including the chieftain's daughter.*The children were rescued, but the ogres have sworn a blood oath to destroy the town and kill the inhabitants. The mayor has tangled with ogres in the past, and knows some lore about their rituals and tactics; he estimates that the ogres will strike in roughly a week. On behalf of the town, the mayor implores the PCs to aid them-without the PCs' help, the townsfolk will be forced to flee their homes for good.*This is an open-ended scenario: The PCs are presented with a problem and a few logical options for solving it, and how they solve it is up to them. The first option is to prepare the town for a siege-training townsfolk to fight from the walls, shoring up fortifications, digging a moat, etc. The second is to take the fight directly to the ogres by heading up to their caves and wiping them all out. This will be difficult, as there are more ogres than the PCs can safely face alone. The third is to try diplomacy and attempt to negotiate with the ogres to secure the town's safety; this could involve ritual combat between the ogres' champion and a PC.*The ogres also have two surprises of their own. One bloodline within the tribe tends to produce smarter-than-average ogres, and two of them will spy on the town. If their spying goes undetected, then the ogres will be better-prepared for whatever the PCs choose to do; if caught, they can provide valuable intelligence about the ogre caves and their forces, if suitably convinced. Additionally, as part of their preparations for assaulting the town, the ogre chief will summon and bind a demon, promising the souls of soon-to-be-captured townsfolk in exchange for the demon's aid in battle. The demon will hang back and use its powers to blindside the PCs-who are expecting to fight only ogres.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (MR) deadline, innocent, isolated area, sandbox, siege, social, tactical planning, villain==The Convicted*A beggar roams the nearby territories clothed in rags and  carrying a scroll containing the teachings of a good deity. The beggar offers to work for food, shelter, and simple goods. The services he provides are those of a highly educated person (calligraphy, book keeping, translations, etc.) and the beggar's fees are not even a tenth of what others would charge for the same work. Still, no one will hire the beggar, and he's driven away by all who encounter him.*The beggar is a former priest of the local good deity who was framed by the current keepers of the nearest temple. The beggar is now an outcast, and no one will help him or hire him out of disgust at his alleged crime. Meanwhile, the current temple keepers are trying to smuggle religious artifacts to a nearby buyer in order to fatten their own pockets.*The PCs may be charged by the good deity to vindicate the beggar, or the beggar may give aid to the PCs out of kindness after they've been wounded. Regardless, once the PCs are associated with the beggar, they become outcasts as well.*The PCs witness a drunken group of mercenaries bullying the beggar; this will help establish the true nature of the beggar, for he will not fight back. The PCs can defend the beggar or watch him be humiliated.*Shortly after that, a group of assassins (disguised as a circus troupe) hired by the temple keepers to kill the beggar and the PCs attack them in broad daylight. They use acrobatics and exotic beasts to assail the PCs, while a knife thrower focuses her attacks on the beggar. The troupe possesses clues as to where the smuggling operation is located.*Finally, the smugglers and temple keepers will meet at the local docks. Here the PCs can vindicate the beggar as they fight their way through evil smugglers and treacherous priests in order to stop a departing ship from setting sail with the artifacts.*The most important aspect of this plot is to make the beggar a likable and sympathetic character. Your players will find the vindication of the beggar to be more rewarding if they genuinely want to help him.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PB) alliance, escort mission, innocent, intrigue, religion, social==Web of Deceit*A quick bodyguard mission in a large city has gone well: The PCs safeguarded an exotic young girl who traveled to the city to pick up and sell an item she inherited from rich relatives. The PCs successfully protected both the girl and the artifact during a nighttime attack, and escorted her to the market where she made the sale. She paid them for a job well done.*The next day, the real owner of the object approaches the PCs. A powerful figure in the local government, he shows the PCs undeniable proof that the object in question was stolen from him just days before it was to be sold to pay off a large government debt. The owner tells the PCs to get the object back or be sentenced to life in jail, or worse. It's clear that he has enough power to make this happen.*The true story: The girl was in league with the object's owner, but double-crossed him and sold it to a fence-with the PCs' unwitting help. The thieves' guild also knew about the girl's planned treachery and tried to exploit her vulnerability as the object changed hands by taking the object for themselves (the nighttime attack) and forcing their way into the deal. Multiple factions are at work, and the PCs should feel like they're caught in a large and complex web. Faction members might approach the PCs, believing they have the object; the girl may return to the PCs, pleading for their help, and perhaps lie to or throw herself at one of the PCs; and the fence might be bribed or otherwise persuaded to give information. Corrupt city guards may also apply pressure to the PCs on the object's owner's behalf.*The PCs learn that the object is being put on a ship out of town at midnight. Many of the involved parties show up at the dock to try to claim the object. The climax could be a combat with various thieves, guards, and other mercenaries, or it might be a tense standoff as the PCs try to negotiate on behalf of whatever party they align themselves with. The PCs might even maneuver the factions against each other and claim the object in the aftermath.*You should plan the movement of the factions beforehand. Place clues and relevant information into the story based on how the PCs search for the object. Your players will feel rewarded when their ideas untangle the complex plot. Write down clues and other information in a visible place so that your players keep everything fresh in their minds and can easily make connections.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-*Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) betrayal, city, investigative, shady, stealth, tactical planning, trade, twist, villain*Crime Pursued by Vengeance==Stolen Dishonor*Most of the founding members of a famous adventuring party have recently been murdered; the two survivors contact the PCs for help. The PCs arrive to find them murdered as well. "Your children are next" is written on the wall in their blood. On the table next to the last two victims is a large lens, with a folded note: "If we are killed, use this."*The lens allows one to see scenes from a location's past. Used at the murder location, it shows a figure suddenly appear in a puff of smoke, slash at the victims, then disappear. The lens also reveals some of the conversation beforehand. Between bouts of nervous small-talk, one victim says, "Do you think it was that business in the pit?" The other snaps "Shut up. We did what we had to. You were there." It also shows the figure writing his gory message, and his face is visible.*The "pit" is well-known as the site of first adventure the victims embarked upon when their party was originally formed. There, nine years ago (the length of time promises made by demons are good for in some belief systems), they defeated a demonic cult at the bottom of a dried-out well. The clues should lead the PCs there, where a few critters have taken up residence and need to be cleared out.*At the pit, the lens reveals robed cultists chanting around a demon, who asks, "What do you desire, and what do you offer?" The leader of the famous adventurers throws off the robes disguising him, buries an axe in the lead cultist, and bellows, "Victory! And I offer you these souls!" He and the other party members begin to fight the cultists as the demon shouts, "You shall have it!" Unnoticed in the fray, but visible in the lens, the injured head cultist drags himself off.*The murderer is the head cultist, returned to take vengeance on the adventurers. He is trading their souls for more power. The demon has granted him a sword which allows him to teleport to a victim's side, acquire their soul with one slash, and then teleport back. His vengeance complete, the sword is now just another sword. The head cultist isn't difficult to track down, as he has recently formed another cult.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) intrigue, investigative, magic, religion, sandbox, villain==Justice by Proxy*A relative of one of the PCs is a wealthy merchant who has established several highly lucrative and coveted trade routes. One day his rival, the nephew to the king, attacks the relative and seizes his trade routes. Petitions to the king fall on deaf ears, as the king won't rule against his own nephew. The relative contacts the PC for help; without his trade routes, he's ruined. Drawing upon their familial bond, he begs the PC to take action against the king's nephew. If he doesn't heed the request, the PC turns his back upon his family-but to heed the request is to bring the wrath of the king upon the PC and his companions.*There is hope, however. The king's nephew has many enemies, from snubbed nobles to angry members of the thieves' guild, all of whom would like to see his downfall. The PCs must now navigate palace back rooms and shadowy alleys in order to seek justice by helping those that have been wronged. As the PCs are moving about the city they'll have at least one run-in with the nephew's thugs, who will threaten the PCs to stay out of the relative's business.*One of the nephew's prominent enemies is the master of the thieves' guild, who knows of the nephew's secret affair with  the king's mistress, and whose brother was taken prisoner in order to keep him quiet. Another is a noble who knows that the nephew has been taking money from the captain of the guard to overlook certain thefts in his district, who wants the prized horse that the nephew seized from him. The head of the local temple also has an axe to grind: He knows that the nephew has been skimming donations from the temples in his district, but can't say anything because the nephew's accountant has falsified the books to make it appear that the head of the temple is embezzling money-the true ledger would prove his innocence.*Can the PCs arrange for the nephew's enemies to drag him down without the king taking action against them? This plot works best if the relative is either someone from the key PC's background or an NPC established at least a few sessions before this plot is used. It must be clear that the PCs stand no chance of attacking the nephew outright: A direct attack against the nephew would bring down the king's wrath, as well as his more powerful followers.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) city, difficult choice, intrigue, politics, relationship hook, religion, shady, trade, villain==Deadly Distractions*Upon hearing a town crier proclaim the murder of a prominent public official, the PCs begin to notice eyes turning accusingly towards them. At first, townsfolk just whisper about them, but then they notice that a group of mercenaries seems to be watching them closely. The situation rapidly deteriorates for the PCs when they hear another crier loudly declare that witnesses saw people running from the scene of the murder-people who match the description of the PCs. One of the townspeople points to the PCs and screams, "Those are the guys!" The PCs are forced to act quickly and with discretion as the town criers' descriptions have stirred people up all over town.*It becomes obvious to the PCs that the criers are being overzealous in their duties. If questioned, a crier will reveal that he's being paid to sensationalize the story. They will find, however, that none were bribed by the same person. The only commonality is the bar where all the criers were approached.*The bar is a known hideout of the real murderer: a member of the assassins' guild. The guild might have been hired by a long-term enemy of the PCs, or they might just be using the PCs as a scapegoat to draw attention away from their crimes.*More information regarding the murder and frame-up can be obtained in the bar's basement, where most of the dirty stuff-like gambling, prostitution, and back room dealing-goes down. Entry to this area can be accomplished in many ways: The group can talk their way in, sneak in, or force their way past the guards, who won't put up too much of a fight.*Once inside, the PCs see someone (the murderer) bolt through a passage in the back. The rest of the people in the room will attack. After the fight, the path will be clear for the PCs to pursue the culprit, who is running through the sewers to meet up with reinforcements. While chasing him through the sewers, they'll face many traps that are designed to slow them down. If the PCs don't catch up to him before he gets to his destination, they'll face a much larger force. If they do catch up to him and stop him, he will reveal the whole plan.*Between the information discovered about the murder, the confession of one or more of the criers, the evidence gathered from the patrons of the bar's basement, and the possible confession of the murderer, the PCs can clear their name with the authorities.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western Tags: (JA) intrigue, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, stealth, villain==The Royal Hunt*A member of the royal family has recently been assigned  the role of magistrate, and his first order of duty is to have a local brothel burned to the ground, ostensibly for the good of the community. In truth, he patronizes the brothel regularly and wants to permanently quiet the ladies in its employ to keep them from gossiping about him. In "the interest of the public good," the brothel is torched with the ladies still inside. The fact that other nearby structures will also catch fire and many innocent people will die is an unfortunate consequence of justice being done.*Things get started when the PCs have to fight both the magistrate's henchmen as well as the blaze itself. At this point, the PCs can become the champions of the common people by opposing the magistrate's forces and the royal family. For a more personal involvement, a prized possession or a beloved associate of the PCs is within the brothel for them to rescue from the blaze.*The people will demand vengeance, but the royal family only removes the magistrate from his office and places him in another. A traitor will reveal to the PCs that long ago, the magistrate's ancestors struck a deal with evil spirits. The spirits would grant power and protection in exchange for the possession of a future soul from the royal bloodline, and the magistrate's soul is the one marked to settle the debt. If the royal family executes him for his crimes, then the evil spirits collect their payment and return to wreak havoc upon the land.*The magistrate begins to stalk and taunt the PCs. This leads to another encounter where the magistrate attempts to frame the PCs by having them summoned to the local palace. The magistrate then attempts to assassinate the entire royal family and make it look like the PCs are responsible. This results in a three-way fight between the PCs, the magistrate's thugs, and the royal guards. A member of the royal family will eventually learn the truth and will succeed in killing the magistrate, if the PCs don't do it first.*When the magistrate is killed the PCs will be plunged into combat with a large demonic creature who is aided by several imps and devils. The royal family is the target of the demon's wrath. Defeating the demon ensures that the royal family falls from power, but if no action is taken, every member of the royal family will perish.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) city, difficult choice, epic impact, intrigue, magic, mature themes, politics, spirit, twist, villain==Spreading Poison*A corrupt city watch captain has been running a protection racket, shaking down merchants and administering savage beatings if they don't pay up. Recently, a merchant rebuffed the captain's cronies, turning down their offer of "protection," and in retaliation they beat the man's wife to death. The merchant is out for vengeance-against the corrupt captain as well as the watch as whole for not bringing the captain to justice. Though not an apothecary himself, he's adept with poisons, and he has begun poisoning watch members.*There have been several poisonings already, and if there are too many more the city will find itself in a crisis, with not nearly enough watch personnel to keep the peace. There's no apparent motive for the crimes, and there are no connections between the watchmen; many are well-respected, and none were involved in killing the merchant's wife. Additional deaths can be used to modulate the pacing of the adventure, giving the PCs breathing room or raising the stakes.*This adventure opens with an investigation of a crime scene. The cause of death is obvious, as is the vector: the watchmen's dinner. The PCs can bring a sample to an apothecary to identify the poison; it turns out to be rare and highly illegal, calling all apothecaries in the city into suspicion.*Visiting a few of their shops will turn up an apothecary who recently disappeared. The merchant bought the poison from him in secret, and as soon as the apothecary saw how it was being used he fled the city. Clues in his shop lead the PCs to the guilty merchant. When the party arrives on his street, they find the captain and his thugs shaking down another shop. If they confront the watchmen, they're warned off; a fight may break out, but fighting the watch should have consequences.*When the PCs meet the merchant, he breaks down and confesses his crimes. He pleads with them to see his side of the story, and to help him bring the captain to justice-even if it means that he himself is executed for his crimes. The nature of the finale will depend on your group, but in general, a good-aligned group will want to see justice served across the board. Exposing the captain will force the watch to punish him for his crimes, but can also reveal corruption further up the chain of command (leading to follow-up adventures).*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) city, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, politics, villain*Vengeance Taken for Kindred upon Kindred==Caught in the Twins' Crossfire*A nearby tribe of orcs (or other savage creatures) was ruled  by a powerful chieftain until just recently, when the chieftain was killed by a party of adventurers. The chieftain's twin children, both as ruthless and savage as their father, blame each other for failing to protect him. This has led the tribe to divide into two factions, each led by one of the twins. The factions occupy two nearby camps.*Tensions have risen between the twins and a war is coming. When it comes, a civilized town will be caught in the center of the battle-a battle that will destroy the town and all of its inhabitants. The PCs have arrived at the town (be it by accident, when summoned, or after being dispatched there) on the eve of the war. The PCs must figure out how to save the town. There are too many orcs for the party to face them alone, but no simple solution exists. If the PCs do nothing, the town will be destroyed, though the PCs may survive. If they support one of the twins over the other, that twin will be victorious; the town will then be in danger from the newly re-formed tribe unless the heroes can strike a bargain with the winner. If the PCs support a third party, that group will need assistance getting a foothold in the region and dealing with both of the twins.*As the PCs tackle the problem at hand, several events will occur over the course of the adventure: a scouting party of orcs attacks a farm on the outskirts of town, the mayor of the town attempts to make a pact with one of the twins for protection (not knowing that the twin won't honor the pact because the mayor is weak), two small raiding parties sneak into the town and start a fight, and the town's racist barkeep attempts to mobilize the town to fight the orcs-an act that will, if allowed to succeed, get the town wiped out immediately, denying the PCs the time that they need to set things right.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) alliance, deadline, innocent, isolated area, mass combat, sandbox, tactical planning, villain==A Family Affair*The PCs are attacked by an earth elemental, and upon defeating the creature, they find a large medallion within the mound of dirt that formed its body. It appears to be made of polished black stone etched with the elemental symbol of earth.*This medallion is a cursed item, and it can't be removed by normal means after it is put on, nor can it be easily destroyed. If a PC puts on the amulet, the PC's skin slowly transforms into a mixture of earth and rock. After four weeks of wearing the amulet, the PC's mind is completely destroyed and she becomes an earth elemental.*The earth elemental was protecting the hidden entrance to an elementalist's tomb. Upon entering the tomb, the PCs are attacked by an air elemental that uses gusts of wind to slam them into stone columns and walls. Hovering within the creature is another medallion with similar properties; it turns its wearer into an air elemental.*Deeper inside the tomb is a water elemental residing in a room that has small holes in the walls, floor, and ceiling. This elemental attacks by hitting the PCs with a geyser that erupts from the holes, quickly draining down into the floor to attack again from another surface. This elemental also possesses a medallion.*The final confrontation is with the fire elemental that protects the elementalist's casket. The fire elemental is the most dangerous foe, for during battle it burns with such intense heat that the iron and wood supports of the tomb weaken and the structure begins to collapse. Another cursed medallion is found once the creature is defeated.*A PC that wears a cursed medallion knows that the elementals are a family. The PC also instinctively knows that in order to break the curse, all four medallions must be recovered and laid to rest in the casket. If any PCs are wearing amulets, touching the casket will work just as well for them. If no one is wearing an amulet, the PCs must somehow deduce how to destroy the amulets in order to prevent others from falling under their curse.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, exploration, magic, monster, tactical planning==The Devil in the Details*Three brothers own a successful shipping company together, and all is well until the middle brother is killed and his shares fall into the eldest's hands. Because youngest believes his eldest brother planned the death-and that he may be next-he asks his wife to hire the PCs to investigate the murder. He has no idea that his wife actually committed the murder in an attempt to win him more control over (and thus, profit from) the company. The PCs may be introduced to the plot because they booked passage on one of the brothers' ships, or they could be hired solely because of their reputation. The PCs are told not to reveal who hired them.*When the wife talks to the PCs, she gives a detailed account of the murder. She knows the place (the tower room with delicate curtains), the murder weapon and how the brother died (a long knife, stabbed in the back), and the approximate time (late in the night). Her demeanor is cool, but she lets clues slip about what really happened while trying to misdirect the PCs; you should provide false leads while also providing real clues. Once the PCs start investigating, she hires others to mislead and attack them.*The PCs will have to talk to many people and do plenty of information-gathering. The middle brother's servants share hard feelings about their shabby treatment at his hands. Local sailors reveal that during their midnight deliveries they noted that he had women over often, and that he propositioned his brothers' wives when drunk. The brothers speak briefly to the PCs, but are generally busy trying to settle a dispute over the company: The older brother is legally entitled to full ownership of the deceased's shares, but the younger brother wants an equal split. They both seem callous and appear largely unaffected by the death. While investigating, the PCs find their lives in danger: They may be attacked by mercenaries (who were hired by way of a letter written in feminine handwriting), discover attempts to poison them, or uncover other covert means of deterring or eliminating them.*Clues should, ultimately, lead to the wife. The watch doesn't know half of the details that she did, despite their investigations; they're willing to follow the PCs' lead in apprehending the wife, who won't put up a physical fight but feigns innocence until all her lies are disproven.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) betrayal, intrigue, investigative, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social, twist, villain==Orcish Blood Debt*The PCs are attacked by orc bandits (they need not be orcs; choose a humanoid type that the PCs have faced before) who fight to the death, hurling vile curses at them during the battle. A few days later, this happens again-and once again the orcs are no match for the PCs, but fight to the last warrior and die screaming curses at the party.*Some time ago, the PCs killed several members of an orcish tribe-and the rest of the tribe has sworn vengeance against the PCs for slaying their kin. Any orc familiar with that tribe can tell them this, and will explain that the tribe will never rest until every last PC is dead-even their chieftain has sworn a blood oath. The orcs have also recently made a treaty with several ogres and giants, and can now mount a force that will crush the PCs utterly. The PCs can try to stave off their assault, or simply flee the region-but the orcs will not stop hunting them. Their orcish informant suggests that they might be able to make peace with the tribe if they surrender and offer up a suitable sacrifice-or best them in a ritual contest.*Finding the orcs is simple enough, as they are looking for the PCs. Whether the PCs surrender or scout out the camp on their own, they'll have to confront the tribe if they aim to make peace. When they do, their surrender or offer to accept the ritual challenge will be accepted. The challenge has three components; if the PCs can beat each test, the tribe will consider their blood debt paid.*The first test is a race. The PCs will be matched up against the tribe's fastest and strongest members, and both teams will race to find a totem that has been hidden several miles away. Sabotaging the other team is acceptable, as is fighting them outright.*The second test is one of bravery. The PCs must enter the lair of a dangerous monster-with no weapons, armor, or gear-and bring out its corpse. The final test is mortal combat against the tribe's new champion: a truly mighty giant. With dozens of cheering and jeering orcs, ogres, and giants looking on, the PCs must best the giant or die trying.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) combat-heavy, monster, race*Pursuit==Disappearances on the River*A fearsome monster has been preying on communities along a stretch of river about a dozen miles long. No one has actually seen it and survived, though many claim to have spotted the creature. It's generally agreed to be some kind of river monster, emerging from the river to claim its prey and then slipping back into the water.*The "river monster" can be one of a number of things, including: an actual river monster, a powerful psychopath (human or otherwise) who haunts the region, a band of humanoids diverting attention from themselves so that they can kidnap locals for their stewpots, slavers picking the region clean before moving on, or an assassins' guild initiation rite. As no one knows the true nature of the threat at the outset of the adventure, you can also suggest several of these options through clues and other signs, and eventually reveal the real threat.*After the PCs are recruited to find and eliminate the river monster, this adventure takes place over four encounters. The first is investigating the threat, and involves interviewing locals, examining at least one place from which someone disappeared, and trying to spot a pattern in the disappearances (time of day, location, who was abducted).*The second involves taking those clues and using them to attempt to catch the monster in the act; how this plays out depends on the clues you seed and the tactics the PCs decide to employ. Part of the fun of this adventure is the planning and guesswork involved for your players. You can build suspense by having another disappearance take place while the PCs stake out their first potential location, but be careful not to drag things out just for the sake of it.*The third encounter involves facing the threat and learning its true identity. If the PCs spotted the threat during the second encounter, this time around they get a good look and know exactly what it is. The fourth encounter is tracking down and eliminating the threat; the nature of this encounter will depend on what kind of threat you selected.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MR) investigative, monster, sandbox, tactical planning==Kidnapped!*Important NPCs with magical abilities are kidnapped and taken aboard a fast ship. Although nearly all of their magical items are confiscated and they're forced to wear collars that suppress much of their magic, the NPCs find that they can still communicate telepathically.*The NPCs are treated roughly, but are not beaten or tortured. The prisoners receive enough food and water to survive; they have multiple guards, none of whom they know. The ship's captain aggressively interrogates them about the PCs.*The PCs should be enticed to follow by whatever means necessary. The kidnappers' ship stays barely within range of spells and weapons. Engagements should take place, but the kidnappers' ship is fast and sturdy. It also has magical defenses against most of the PCs' abilities, and develops additional defenses in response to successful tactics that they deploy. Keep the PCs interested and in pursuit, but don't let them win or lose at this stage.*The kidnappers lead the PCs on a merry chase for a couple of days, eventually running aground on an unknown island. The PCs can easily board the ship, not-so-easily defeat the crew, and rescue the NPCs. The captain surrenders when he realizes that he's outclassed.*The captain is magnanimous and talkative in surrender, and explains that a mysterious stranger offered him a pile of gold to perform this mission. Further, he was promised that his ship would be protected during the chase, and that he would be met here by a larger force and offered additional gold for his cargo. He also points out that the maps he was given of this island are inaccurate, and show a channel where there is none. He'll even offer the PCs a share of the gold if they don't turn him in.*The captain will further explain that he doesn't know how his ship managed to defend itself against the PCs: It's not a magical vessel, and he's no wizard. However, a magical device that allows scrying and long-distance magic can be found atop the mast of his ship; the captain and crew were unaware of its existence.*The island itself isn't unusual (unless that would better suit your campaign), and it provides enough food and water for the PCs to resupply for their journey home-during which they can discuss who exactly was spying on them…*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) exploration, innocent, magic, race, rebellion, rivalry, travel, villain==The Vengeful Horde*The Vengeful Horde is a supernatural force, taking the appearance of a host of demonic creatures, which is released from its ethereal prison to bring vengeance upon a person or persons. The Horde pursues its target relentlessly, destroying everything in its path. The Horde can't be killed by conventional weapons or spells; it can only be forced back into its ethereal prison through the use of a holy artifact.*While traveling, the PCs receive word that the last town that they visited has been destroyed. Survivors say that the town was destroyed by the legendary Vengeful Horde. After some investigation, it becomes clear to the PCs that the Horde has been sent after them, and that the day after they visit a location, the Horde will destroy that location.*The PCs know of (or learn of) the holy artifact, and learn that it's being kept in a great temple in a nearby city. They will have to travel there and acquire the holy artifact. The problem is that the city is protected by the presence of the artifact, and if the PCs take it they'll put the city at risk of an attack by its enemies. The city's elders don't want give the artifact to the PCs.*The PCs will have to convince the elders to release the artifact, or steal it, and then travel to the nearby mountain that houses the Horde's prison. The evil nature of the prison has attracted all manner of fell creatures that live in the area, and they'll attack the PCs as the party tries to gain entry to the prison.*The prison itself contains a number of magical and mundane traps designed to keep people out. The PCs will have to overcome these obstacles, deliver the holy artifact to the prison, and complete the ritual to return the Horde to its confinement. They must do so in less than a day, or the Horde will lay waste to the city that the PCs have just left.*This plot works best using an existing city in your campaign. The prison should be a few hours away on horseback, in rough and difficult terrain. The question of who released the Horde on the PCs can drive future adventures: Was it a foiled nemesis, a rival party, a vengeful dragon, or a spurned lover?*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) bearers, deadline, epic challenge, innocent, magic==Another 45 Miles to Go…*The town is abuzz with the news that a dangerous bandit was captured-a bandit with many loyal followers who have vowed to free him. Nervous townspeople want the bandit held in a more secure facility, but can't find anyone willing to escort him to one-not even as far as the neighboring town. The area boasts only two incapable guards and it is understood that the bandit cannot be moved without a more capable force. A sizable reward is offered for help in escorting the prisoner.*The PCs don't even make it out of town before they're harried by sniper attacks originating from rooftops and hidden alleys. They will be assaulted with thrown knives, poisoned arrow bolts, and other ranged attacks. There are three snipers, all trying to draw guards away from the prisoner in preparation for an ambush.*Before the PCs reach the predetermined drop-off point, a bloodied scout stops them. He relays that half of the bandit's men wait along this path, ready to ambush the PCs, and suggests a different path. The PCs should decide whether to push through the ambush, which should be very challenging, or take the other path. If they push through, the final battle will be much easier, but their chances of surviving the journey to that confrontation will be lower. If they take the other route, they'll be pursued in a mad chase or an on-the-move combat.*If the PCs push through the attacking force at the ambush, then they arrive at the drop-off location earlier. They're still attacked by the rest of the bandit's men just before the drop-off, but they have a much easier fight due to the bandits' thinned ranks. If the PCs take the route suggested by the scout, then the challenge level of this fight should be increased, as more of the bandit's followers are present.*The bandit can be replaced by an evil noble or NPC appropriate to an ongoing story in your game. The bandit will attempt to escape given any opportunity. A scene where the PCs have to rest overnight with the bandit will create an atmosphere of tension, as no one knows if the bandit's allies will attack during the night. Sprinkle in other encounters as needed, using third parties, tolls on roads, or other non-bandit encounters to try to slow the party down for dramatic effect.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (JA) combat-heavy, escort mission, mass combat, sandbox, shady, travel, villain==Big Fish Fear Large Ponds*A band of nomads is hunted and tormented by a local warlord. The warlord considers it a game to block their caravan's exit from his territory, driving the nomads back toward his main camp whenever they come close to escape. He forces the nomads to pay him tribute "for their use of his lands." Soon, the nomads will have nothing left with which to pay, and they fear that the warlord will then take his payment in blood.*Their tormentor is a small fish in a big pond. His territory resides between two kingdoms with better-organized and more heavily armed legitimate armies. The territory could easily be overrun by either of these forces, but the warlord has thus far stayed off their radar. The nomads were only passing between these larger kingdoms to sell their goods.*After entering this territory, the PCs are mistaken for nomads by the warlord's scouts and attacked. If the PCs are victorious, the nomad leader offers to hire the PCs as bodyguards to escort the caravan off of the warlord's land. If the PCs retreat from this initial confrontation, a nomad scout finds the PCs and leads them to the caravan so that the nomads may tend to their wounds. The nomad leader offers food and healing if the PCs agree to aid in their escape.*The PCs have to choose between fighting the warlord's troops along well-traveled roads or taking the older roads that the warlord leaves unguarded-but which have been overrun by monsters. Combat with the warlord's troops should involve large numbers of enemies attacking the PCs in relentless waves. Fighting monsters on the old roads can lead to other possible adventures, such as a dungeon crawl or a quest to slay large, sinister opponents like trolls.*Whatever route the PCs choose, the final confrontation should be with the warlord and his elite guard. If the PCs and nomads leave the territory alive, they will surely tell others, and that could result in the warlord being considered a threat to trade.*Foster a sense of urgency by reporting how many of the nomads are still healthy and able after each battle. Force the PCs to choose between moving quickly to stay ahead of the warlord, or moving more slowly in order to ensure that the nomads remain in good shape.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Post-Apocalyptic, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PB) alliance, combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, escort mission, mass combat, sandbox, stealth, tactical planning, trade, travel, villain*Disaster==Dirty Little Secrets*While traveling, the PCs are overtaken by a squad of armored elven soldiers. The sergeant steps forward and begs help from the PCs. She tells of an overwhelming surprise attack by orcs on an elven city, deep within restricted elven lands. No one saw the orcs until they had reached the city walls, and there are simply too many of them to turn aside. Reinforcements keep pouring in from the south; the elves suspect the aid of strong magic. The sergeant asks the PCs to enter elven territory, sneak into the orc camp, and discover or destroy the source of the reinforcements while the elves distract the orcish forces with a counterattack from the north.*In truth, a mage of another race is leading the attack on the elven city. The magic user has created a powerful teleportation apparatus that can quickly transport entire armies to a desired location. The initial attack on the city walls was merely an appetizer to the real battle that will come if the mage breaches the elven fortification-not by force, but by sneaking a portal into the city.*The orc camp is mostly deserted, save for a handful of support troops and a few squads of guards. The camp was hastily made, and serves as a waypoint for the orcs as they travel to the city. A trail, made by the feet of innumerable marching orcs, leads north to the city and farther south. Messages, written both in Orcish and in a more refined language, lay out the attack strategy and hint at the presence of a non-orc leader.*South of the camp is a large tunnel, recently dug from the side of a stony hill. Handlers outside of the tunnel are tending to a few large burrowing creatures while the rest of the beasts continue digging inside, preparing side passages off the large main tunnel. The PCs can fight their way past the handlers and their beasts, or avoid them through stealth. A portal is found at the end of the main passage, and deep wheel tracks show that a large object was taken out through a side tunnel. Interrogation of any of the orcish beast handlers reveals that the orc general is personally transporting a teleportation gate into the elven city.*The general, accompanied by a squad of his finest, is larger, tougher, and smarter than all the other orcs. When encountered, he stands proudly, the conquering hero, on top of the portal cart. He and his squad will fight to the death to defend the portal. Once defeated, a message can be found on the general's body that reveals the presence of the mage. This can hook into other adventures or larger storylines-or for a self-contained adventure, the mage can simply be involved in the final combat.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (JA) alliance, city, combat-heavy, epic impact, exploration, investigative, magic, mass combat, siege, tactical planning==In the Kingdom of the Blind...*One night while the PCs are traveling, a witch offers to pay them a handsome fee should they stay on her lands and protect her from "the evil that rides the night winds." The phantom creatures tormenting the witch don't kill their opponents, but instead blind those who fall in combat against them. If the PCs save the old witch, she will bestow upon them a protection spell to make them immune to the blindness. (When the creatures realize they cannot blind the PCs, they will simply try to kill them.)*If the PCs refuse the witch's offer, they'll be attacked by the phantoms that very night. If they then return to the witch's hut, they will discover only her shredded corpse.*What's really going on: An evil knight, burned at the stake 100 years ago, has returned. He was executed after he nearly overthrew the monarchy. The knight ensnared a demon and replaced his own eyes with the demon's to gain mastery over the dark arts. When he was caught, he was blinded so that he couldn't work magic. He vowed to return one day to smite his enemies and their descendants.*Nine out of 10 locals are now blind. The evil knight has risen from his grave as an undead monstrosity who resides in the former monarch's castle. Other undead and demonic beings roam the land serving his evil will. Only his destruction will restore normalcy to the land.*The PCs must launch an assault against the undead in order to enter the castle. Once inside, they'll face an undead royal family that will attack with fangs and claws, and whose eyes have been sewn shut.*The final battle is against the undead knight in the throne room. The knight wears the eyes of the royal family on a necklace made of sinew, and can pluck the eyes from the necklace to cast different spells.*Stress how all of civilization has ground to a halt due to the epidemic of blindness. Fires blaze out of control, food is within reach but hard to find, and people become lost in panic and wander away from safety.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) city, combat-heavy, epic impact, madness, magic, mass combat, siege, villain==No Way Out*The PCs are traveling through the mountains in winter when the ground suddenly trembles-it's an avalanche. The PCs must quickly run or ride ahead of the wave of snow. As they flee the avalanche, they spot a small stone house just off the road.*The house is empty, but has a cellar door. The PCs enter the cellar and close the door just in time as the avalanche sweeps over the house, trapping the PCs in the cellar. They then discover that they're not alone: In the cellar with them are a young woman, who cowers in one corner, and three wounded men; the men are protecting an object wrapped in hide.*Unbeknownst to the PCs, the object is a white dragon egg. The men fought the dragon atop a nearby mountain and stole the egg; the dragon triggered a series of avalanches to stop them from fleeing the area. The house belongs to the woman, who is the dragon's companion-a sorcerer who lures adventurers to her home and traps them for the dragon.*In the cellar, the PCs have a chance to talk to the men and the woman. The woman claims to have been part of a caravan traveling through the mountains; the men say little, and won't reveal what's under the hides. The woman should seem innocent, but somehow not completely innocent. Exploring their prison, the PCs discover a hidden passageway that leads into a network of underground caverns.*They encounter a series of traps in the caverns, which the woman avoids. Growing suspicious, the men blame her for setting the traps, and attack her; the PCs may or may not intervene (though most groups probably will).*The group eventually reaches a large, icy cavern. The woman casts a light spell, revealing a wounded white dragon atop its hoard. The men cry out and attempt to flee, but find that the woman has magically sealed the passage, trapping them-and the PCs-with the dragon.*Caught in the crossfire between the dragon, the egg-thieves, and the sorcerer, the PCs have several options. Will they try to talk their way out of this sticky situation? Search for a way to escape, abandoning the men to their fate? Or fight the dragon, the sorcerer, and possibly the men as well?*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) betrayal, dungeon crawl, isolated area, monster, shady, twist==Forest Plague*A plague has sprung up in the heart of a forest, and is killing the trees that house a wild elf tribe's village. The plague was released by members of a rival tribe of corrupted wild elves-they want the plague-stricken elves' land, and are willing to sacrifice part of the forest to get it. But the plague is more virulent than their shamans intended, and will quickly spread to the rest of the forest and beyond.*The wild elves ask the PCs for help in saving their village, but they don't know the true nature of the plague; they believe it to be a natural disaster. As the PCs approach the village, they spot shadowy figures in the trees. The figures flee, but leave clues behind: several bags filled with scraped-off tree mold and covered in elven stitch-work. The wild elves suspect a secret benefactor who is trying to find a cure.*Speaking to the village elder, the PCs learn that a rival tribe has approached them on several occasions to barter for their land. They live deeper in the forest, but haven't been seen for months. When the PCs leave the village, they see that the plague has visibly spread just since their arrival.*The rival settlement was abandoned in haste, with precious objects left behind-the corrupted elves fled when they realized what they'd done. A few of their shamans stayed behind and collected the plague mold that the PCs found, hoping to reverse the spread of the plague and atone for their great sin.*Flushed out of hiding, they'll share the whole story with the PCs and offer to help in any way that they can. Their most powerful shaman, however, fled with the rest of the tribe-and he's the only one who can stop the plague. The PCs must track the corrupted elves through the forest and abduct the shaman.*With the head shaman in tow, they return to the wild elf village only to find that the plague has now mutated and spread to the elves-several have died already, and many more have plague mold sprouting from their skin. The village wants to kill the evil shaman on the spot, and the PCs must first convince them that he's the key to their survival, and then persuade him to reverse the plague.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) deadline, innocent, isolated area, race, social, travel, villain*Falling Prey to Cruelty or Misfortune==A King's Ransom*Over the past few months, the ruler of a kingdom has been erecting temples to a new deity, and has begun to push out the clerics of other religions. At first these changes were subtle, but they have grown increasingly more overt and hostile. The king recently began converting his people by the sword, using a special group of soldiers who travel throughout the kingdom. The clerics of the other religions have now gone underground, as have their more faithful followers. The ruler has refused to listen to his council's cries for reason, and reports are circulating about the king's detractors vanishing mysteriously-including his own daughter, a princess who is beloved by the people. The people now live in fear of their ruler's next demand, and it is into this charged atmosphere that the PCs come onto the scene.*The PCs will discover that the ruler has been possessed by an extra-planar creature. Years ago, in desperation to save his kingdom from destruction by a hostile army, the ruler made a pact with the creature: power in exchange for worshippers. The creature has come to collect. It has stolen the king's soul and imprisoned it in a mystical prison in its extra-planar fortress. The PCs must fight this battle on two fronts: in their world, and on the creature's home plane.*First, the PCs must stop the mass conversion of a town that is faithful to one of the original deities. Most of the townspeople will be killed during the conversion.*They then learn of a dark ritual that is being prepared by the clerics of the king's chosen deity to allow him to draw life energy from the world to the creature's plane. This ritual will cause a blight to spread forth from the ritual site, killing everything in its path.*When the PCs seek to oppose the creature directly, it will send forth extra-planar creatures to attack the party. In order to defeat the creature, the PCs need to obtain a ritual that will open a mystical gate to the creature's extra-planar fortress. The PCs must confront the creature on its home plane and rescue the king's soul, which will restore the kingdom to normal.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, High Fantasy, Horror, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) epic challenge, innocent, magic, monster, politics, religion, villain==Like Rats from a Sinking Ship*A shipwreck on an uncharted island is spotted by sailors on a passing vessel. Later, in port, the crew tells of a wrecked ship that seemed to be crawling with strange creatures. The insurer of the lost ship says that a phial of holy water was on board, and that it is the cure for an ever-worsening disease that afflicts a member of the royal family. The insurer will pay a great deal to get the phial before the king finds out about the shipwreck. He will provide passage to the shipwreck if the PCs will get the cure.*En route to the island, the PCs learn from the crew that the area is cursed and is generally avoided, even by pirates. Closing on the location of the shipwreck, the PCs notice dark, menacing figures swimming toward them. They have little time to react before the things crawl up the ship and attack, going after holy or religious characters first. The creatures worship a dark god whose tenets decree the death of the followers of any other god. After defeating the creatures, the shipwreck and island can be seen close by; creatures swarm over the wreck, but flee at the PCs' approach.*Boarding the sloping deck of the wrecked ship, the PCs go below; there they find many waterlogged rooms and the occasional creature picking through the pieces. The majority withdrew, but some remain on the ship, searching for something. In the area where the PCs should find the phial, they find only an ornate box with holy symbols on it. The box is empty, but there are some valuable items elsewhere in the cargo hold. If the PCs stay aboard the ship for too long, the tide comes in and begins to pull the ship out to sea; the PCs may find themselves trapped in a room quickly filling with water.*Not finding the phial on the ship, the island is the next logical place to search, as many creatures fled there. In the deepest part of the island's half-flooded cave system, the PCs will find the creatures' shaman. He leads the creatures in a ceremony meant to corrupt the vial. All of the creatures will attack if the ritual is disturbed. To ramp up the final battle, have a powerful sea monster or dragon worshipped by the creatures rise up to join the fight.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) combat-heavy, exploration, isolated area, mass combat, monster, religion, siege, tactical planning==Dreams of Water and Fire*The PCs have a series of bizarre dreams that recur night after night for more than a week. They're always broadly the same: scenes of landscapes made of fire and worlds which are entirely composed of a single ocean-and just before the PCs wake up, the ocean begins to boil and the fires are extinguished, sucking the life out of both worlds. Somehow, a sense of immense pain is conveyed through these dreams. Then one night, a new scene appears at the end: a brief glimpse of a town that features a magnificent bridge straddling a river-a town the PCs recognize.*The dreams are being sent by several water and fire elementals, all of whom have been enslaved in the waterworks of this town's wondrous bridge-an engineering marvel that powers multiple waterwheels, stays warm even in winter, and provides heat for nearby buildings. The builders will say only that the bridge is "powered by magic," but in truth a terrible crime is being committed against the elementals: The fire elementals are imprisoned in a magical cage just beneath the water elementals, so that the fire boils the water elementals and the water douses the fire elementals-but not to the point that it kills any of them. In their suffering, they release the magical energy that powers the bridge.*Freeing the elementals isn't as simple as it sounds. They're understandably angry about their imprisonment and torture, and if freed they'll go on a rampage through the town, killing dozens. The townsfolk are justifiably proud of their marvelous bridge, but most would be opposed to its existence if they knew the true price. Unfortunately, those with a vested interest in seeing the secret preserved are also the people in charge: the town elders, whose resources include the three wizards who bound the elementals in the first place. Additionally, while the elementals didn't send dreams to the locals (for obvious reasons), two other groups of adventurers-a mercenary company and a band of consummate do-gooders-have also received these visions, and they converge on the town at roughly the same time as the PCs.*This is a site-based sandbox adventure, wherein the nature of the specific encounters involved is up to the PCs. Will they free the elementals without heeding the consequences, or will they try to convince the elementals not to attack the town if freed? Will they try to bring the town elders to justice, or sway the townsfolk against them? Will they ally with one or both groups of adventurers, or oppose the mercenaries' pursuit of profit as well as the do-gooders single-minded focus on freeing the elementals?*Easily adapted to: Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) alliance, city, difficult choice, intrigue, magic, rebellion, sandbox, social==Blissful Sleep*Eons ago, a fallen angel walked among mortals, stripped  of his immortality by the gods; in time, the angel grew old and diseased. He discovered he could postpone death by transferring a part of his essence into a mortal through a kiss. With this magic, the angel was restored to youth and health, and the mortal became physically empowered for a brief period of time.*What the angel didn't know was that all mortals receiving his enchanted kiss lapsed into a coma and died. Furthermore, they spread this magical disease to other mortals through the merest touch. In a matter of days, whole villages were infected and wiped out.*After an entire kingdom fell, the angel, finally realizing that he was the source of the destruction, banished himself from all mortal contact. Still unable to face death, however, the angel cast a spell upon himself and entered a magical slumber in the capital city of the fallen kingdom. Surrounding kingdoms quarantined all roads into the infected lands, and no one dared to set foot into that territory ever again.*Ages passed, the quarantine was forgotten, and now adventurers are entering the infected lands once again. They return with the treasures of the fallen kingdom-and they carry the disease. They boast of how they have gained power and strength, but after a few days they pass away during their sleep. The epidemic spreads once again.*The PCs may have friends who become infected, or become infected themselves. A PC can contract the disease by entering into combat against another infected adventurer, perhaps one who is drunk with his newfound treasure and power.*Local temples and archives have some information on the legend of the fallen angel, and suggest that the disease cannot be cured unless the angel is either slain or redeemed in some manner. The infected lands are densely populated by monsters that are immune to the disease (non-humanoid creatures should be the norm). The awakening of the fallen angel could be used as a climactic final battle, or could result in a quest to redeem the creature.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, epic impact, exploration, innocent, monster, religion, social, travel*Revolt==To Drown in Power*The PCs are at sea when a behemoth from the depths attacks their ship. It swipes passengers and crew members from the deck and swallows them whole. Many people land in the water during this attack and will drown if unaided. The PCs don't have to kill the sea creature, and can drive it off by inflicting enough damage-but regardless of the PCs' efforts, the ship starts to sink.*The PCs can use a lifeboat to save crew and passengers from the waters. One of the passengers who they rescue is a pale elf. The elf explains that she has escaped the underwater kingdom, whose tyrannical ruler sent the sea creature out to capture slaves. The pale elf possesses a magic item that will teleport her back home, along with a small group, and she pleads for help in overthrowing the tyrant. Offer treasure and glory as needed to entice the PCs to aid the pale elf.*Following teleportation, the PCs awaken in the underwater kingdom, a dimly lit land with odd vegetation similar to seaweed. The pale elf is there, and she explains that a wizard sealed the land in a magical dome to save the people of a sinking island. If the PCs look to the "sky," they'll see the shadows of large whales, squid, and schools of fish.*The PCs are attacked by merfolk (or other human/sea creature hybrids). These creatures were tracking the pale elf, and they attack using tridents and nets. One of the creatures rides a beast that appears to be part rhino and part great white shark.*Allow the PCs to explore the setting to create empathy with the native people. Eventually, the PCs will need to infiltrate the tyrant's fortress. This will lead to the final encounter with the tyrant and his elite guard. The tyrant has a magical orb that he can use to temporarily allow sea water to fall from the dome and crush his opponents.*The PCs can use the tyrant's orb to raise the former island back to the surface, or you can devise another adventure centered on the PCs returning home.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) alliance, city, combat-heavy, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, isolated area, magic, monster, politics, rebellion, villain==The Unexpected Uprising*The PCs (who don't have access to flight or teleportation magic) have arrived at a city in search of information, an object, or a person. The city is walled and is heavily patrolled by guards. The PCs are questioned extensively before being let into the city. They can feel the tension in the air; guards have their hands on their weapons, and citizens avoid their gaze.*As the PCs search the city, they're accosted by a patrol of guards. The guards are belligerent, and instigate a fight. When the fight breaks out, the citizens in the area rise up and attack the nearest guards, inciting a full-scale riot. In the midst of the riot, a man will lead the PCs into a shop and through a secret passage. He pledges his loyalty to the PCs, and tells them that there are others ready to support their rebellion. He asks about the man who sent them-did he return to the city? The PCs have no idea what he's talking about.*The man will quickly realize that these aren't the people he's looking for, and will explain himself. He'll tell the PCs about the city's unjust ruler and the crimes that she and her men have committed against the people. A month ago, a member of the underground left the town with a large amount of money, seeking to hire mercenaries to come and lead an insurgency. The man assumed the PCs were those mercenaries. From here, the PCs drive the action. There's a citywide insurgency in progress, they've been branded as rebels, and they're trapped in the city-what will they do?*The following events can take place during this adventure: A wizard with the city guard damages a large building with innocents inside, and the PCs are asked to help rescue people from the collapsing building; a group of women and children are being rounded up by guards to use as hostages, and the PCs must liberate them before they're locked in the dungeons; and the ruler's elite guards are dispatched to find and kill the PCs.*Ultimately, the city won't be safe until the PCs have fully joined the rebellion, stormed the evil ruler's keep, and helped to install the next ruler. You can run these events as three meaty encounters, or expand them into adventures in their own right.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) alliance, city, epic impact, politics, rebellion, sandbox, villain==Extreme Magical Measures*All magic, harmful and helpful, has been suppressed in a city that would otherwise use it heavily. The suppression was enacted by the leader of a mages' guild in order to cripple the magical powers of an evil beast that lurks in the catacombs beneath the capital. As evidence of the moratorium, magic-wielding PCs may find that use of magic becomes increasingly difficult as they approach this place. The PCs' magical items cease to work entirely when they reach the area. In town, posted notices advise that magic is currently outlawed by the guild.*The town is full of mages sitting around and complaining. Include humorous elements of mages trying simple spells, only to be frustrated when they remember that they won't work. After some inquiry, the mages will reveal that the source of the magical suppression is an artifact that the guild leader planted to protect the city from an evil creature. They ultimately decide that they'll pay an impressive sum to the PCs if they brave the catacombs and defeat the beast, which will allow the mages to disable the artifact and once again have use of all their abilities.*The catacombs are deep beneath the city. The first few levels are mostly just stairs leading down, but the lower levels are huge and ancient, predating humanity. You should evoke the feeling that the artifact, being buried so far beneath the  ground, is nonetheless powerful enough to reach up into the world above, and that the lower levels are extremely old. In terms of encounters, the catacombs are full of traps and strange creatures; non-magical beasts will also attack the PCs. Whole societies of intelligent beings could be found down here, suffering the effects of lost magic. Some "safe" areas, however, might be immune to the anti-magic effect, presenting either opportunities to rest or new magical dangers.*The PCs should find the device before they find the creature. This leads to two resolution paths: Find a way to shut off the device, thus unleashing the creature, or find and kill the creature first, then take the device back to the mages to be disabled. Defeating the creature requires good strategy and utilization of other strengths-you should choose a creature that is incredibly high in magical power but still formidable without it. This scenario can be used to challenge a party heavily reliant on magic or magical items.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) city, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, epic impact, exploration, magic, mass combat, monster, sandbox, siege, stealth, tactical planning==Dishonor among Thieves*Members of a city's large and powerful thieves' guild are revolting against the guild's leadership, and this is causing numerous problems. Guild rules that normally prohibit certain types of theft or protect specific groups are being abandoned, independent cutthroats and footpads are moving in to contest guild territory, and the city watch is stretched to the limit dealing with thieves' guild issues. Other types of crime, including murder, flourish in the shadows. Because of the secretive nature of the guild, the source of all of these problems isn't obvious to outsiders.*The PCs can become involved as deputized members of the city watch tasked with maintaining order, as good Samaritans who stop one crime only to find others taking place nearby, as rogues with a vested interest in seeing the thieves' guild weakened (or strengthened), as mercenaries hired by the guild to keep the peace, or as victims of a crime perpetrated by a villain who is muscling in on guild territory. This plot assumes that the PCs are broadly on the side of the law.*Use an opening scene to set the stage, revealing that apparently unrelated problems are actually somehow connected to the thieves' guild as a whole. That scene leads into an encounter that makes the big picture clear: two rival guild factions trying to murder each other in broad daylight, with the PCs caught in the middle. While the city can't officially engage with the thieves' guild, the PCs can. When they share their news with the watch or other officials, they're offered a reward in exchange for quietly negotiating with the leaders of the guild to achieve peace in the city.*At the heart of the guild's troubles is a dispute between the current leader and the woman who wishes to replace him. She challenged him to a duel for leadership rights and won, but was immediately locked up, her victory unrecognized. Her supporters led the revolt, and the two sides are now in opposition.*The PCs must broker a peace between them and decide which leader they would prefer to assist-and how to satisfy the other faction. The current leader encourages more crimes, but forbids violence entirely; the challenger has a vision of a more brutal guild that focuses less on street crime and more on big jobs, which might actually be better for the city as a whole.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) alliance, city, difficult choice, intrigue, politics, sandbox, shady, social*Daring Enterprise==Flame of Passion*A supernatural glacier that advances several feet a day has  appeared in a nearby land. Shrouded in mist, it is known as the Icy Death, and it's approaching the kingdom's capital city, crushing every field, forest, town, and living thing in its path. The king has put his top sages to work consulting ancient texts in order to find a way to halt its progress.*The sages have found a text that describes how sacrificing "the flame of passion" will dispel the Icy Death, and they've determined that this is a reference to the queen, who is the flame that ignites the king's passion. Without hesitation, she offers herself up as a willing sacrifice in order to protect her kingdom and its people. Leaving the city with a retinue of knights, she heads for the glacier.*Shortly after the queen departs, the PCs arrive in the capital. They've heard news of the Icy Death's return, and consult with the king to see if they can help. Hearing the tale of the sages and the queen, one PC with a background in history is concerned with the sages' interpretation. After reviewing the text in question, she reaches another conclusion: The flame of passion is an alchemical formula, and she can create it with the proper ingredients. In a panic, the king asks them to create the flame, rescue the queen, and destroy the Icy Death.*En route to the great glacier, the PCs must fight their way through the flood of refugees who are fleeing its approach; they will have an encounter in which they rescue people from peril. Mounting the glacier itself, they'll face ice creatures tasked with preventing anyone from escaping across its surface. When they find the queen, her knights are locked in mortal combat with more ice creatures, and the PCs can turn the tide and rescue the queen. Once they convince her of the sages' error, and of their plan to destroy the glacier, the queen and her knights will begin heading back towards the capital.*In order to use the flame of passion to dispel the Icy Death, the PCs must now fight their way across a vast swath of glacier, eventually reaching the ice demon at its heart.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) bearers, combat-heavy, epic impact, innocent, magic, monster, politics, villain==For Glory, Nothing More*One morning, a bright light shines on the horizon as if a new dawn were breaking-only a hundred times brighter. A powerful breeze then sweeps across the entire countryside, blasting open doors and lasting more than a minute. The smell of jasmine lingers and then slowly fades away. A new object is now blazing upon the horizon: what appears to be a star, twinkling on the surface of the world. It's bright enough to see during the day, and it provides a pale blue light all night long, illuminating the darkness yet not interfering with sleep.*What is this new "star?" Is it a hundred miles away, or a thousand? Is it a blessing or a harbinger of doom? Is it magical or divine? Most important of all: Who will be the first to reach it?*Hooks include being hired as part of an expedition, a dream of the star landing the night before it actually does, preventing a rival from reaching the star first, or plain old fame and glory. On their journey to the star, the PCs should encounter hazards along their way, as well as competition in the form of NPCs who will try to thwart the PCs' advancement. Whether this is malicious or merely friendly opposition is up to you; a mix of both may work best.*The PCs should also encounter groups that fear the star and want to prevent anyone from reaching it, as they believe it is an object of evil. Of course, there are groups that worship the star as well, and they try to prevent anyone from reaching it because they believe it to be sacred. The fun of this plot is that no group actually knows what the star is, yet they will fight one another for various reasons related to the mysterious light.*The true nature of the light source is completely up to you. Keep the focus on the race to be first at the scene. You can do this by having multiple teams in play and letting the PCs gain the lead on one team only to lose it to another.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) investigative, isolated area, magic, race, religion, rivalry, travel==Weird Science*A scientist is experimenting on monstrous creatures, creating monster repellents and charms to exert control over them. He needs parts from certain creatures to complete his experiments, but his assistants have run off due to the danger involved. He's currently looking for new, braver assistants. The PCs may meet him because one of the party members is a monstrous creature from whom he tries to take a sample, run into him in a bar bemoaning his lack of good help, or find themselves in an unexpected fight with a captured creature that escapes its bonds. Once met, the scientist will try to hire the party to help him capture creatures or acquire certain parts and byproducts.*The experimenter will send the PCs after many different creatures, tagging along and offering humorous advice: "Fourth spleen on the left," "The weak point is in his pinkie," or, "Hmm, this beast's sputum tastes like marmalade." The experimenter always rewards the party well for hunts, but is upset when vital parts or limbs are destroyed. He should be played as an eccentric mad scientist, unaware of the danger he puts others in. Create hunts for creatures that are exotic, or that the group might not usually face in other adventures-you can  even run this adventure straight from a book of monsters as a side quest, dropping in a hunt whenever players are absent or you need a quick adventure.*After sufficient monster hunts, the final confrontation of this adventure arc is combat with a large, terrifying, and unique creature. As the final piece of his project, the experimenter needs it alive and has a sedative that can knock it out. The scientist doses the creature early in the combat, but the dose is too weak. Success will require controlling the situation and protecting the scientist until he can get in another shot. The creature should be capable of multiple attacks and will target the experimenter every round if the PCs don't control the battle well.*Once the creature is defeated, the experimenter offers an extra non-monetary reward to the party, such as fixing an ailment, boosting stats, or providing a formula that grants a monster-based ability.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) alliance, escort mission, monster, race, tactical planning, travel==Orcs in the Dragon's Den*A half-orc stumbles into the PCs' camp in the middle of the night, gravely wounded, and begs for their aid. In exchange for healing, he offers them a golden opportunity to destroy what remains of his tribe-including their chieftain, a vicious killer responsible for numerous recent attacks in the area. He explains that the tribe (which has never accepted him, treating him as the lowest of the low because of his mixed blood) just fought a dragon, evicting it from its lair at the price of many, many orcish lives. They took over the lair, but the tribe has been decimated-and their chieftain is seriously injured. If the PCs strike while the orcs are licking their wounds, they can kill the chieftain and claim the dragon's hoard. To convince them of his sincerity, the half-orc produces a handful of dragon scales covered in fresh dragon blood.*The half-orc warns the PCs about their first obstacle-scouts on nearby hilltops and around the mouth of the lair-but is unaware of the other two impediments to reaching the orcish chieftain: a rival dragon who wants the lair for himself, but is too young to claim it alone, and the destabilizing effect the battle with the dragon had on the lair's actual structure.*The first encounter is with the scouts, who must be eliminated before they can sound the alarm. They are spread out, with every scout's location in view of at least two others, and are adept at their craft. The PCs will need to remove them from the picture quickly, quietly, and without alerting any of their fellows.*Entering the lair complex is the second encounter. While there are few defenders, stealth is still important. Observant PCs may notice that the caverns seem unstable (weakened by blasts of dragon breath), and can take advantage of this to cause a cave-in-provided they don't mind missing out on the treasure.*In the third encounter, the PCs face the chieftain. This battle should be challenging, as the tribe's two war shamans are uninjured and ready for trouble, but not insurmountable. Midway through the battle, the cavern complex will begin to crumble, raising two possibilities: Stranding the orcs inside would eliminate them, but striking a bargain with the chieftain might allow the PCs to acquire some of the treasure in exchange for helping the orcs escape.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) alliance, combat-heavy, monster, stealth, tactical planning==The Cloud Fortress*While resting in town at the conclusion of an adventure, the PCs hear a commotion in the town square. When they go to investigate, they see a fortress floating in the sky-*a fortress which could only have appeared just moments ago. Upon entering the fortress, they will find that it's not empty. Rather, it's full of all manner of extra-planar and elemental creatures. They all seem focused on the keep in the center, which they're taking turns attacking. The keep looks battered, and is defended by a force of equally battered humans. The humans spot the PCs, motion for them to come inside, and let them into the keep.*The humans explain to the PCs that this structure is a prison, and that it was anchored in the astral plane until one of the creatures unraveled the ritual magic that was holding it there, setting it adrift. The creatures can't exit the prison because the humans have in place a series of wards holding them within the building. The only way for the creatures to escape is to kill the humans and dispel the wards-setting them loose upon the PCs' world.*The humans are badly wounded, and have lost too many people to both hold the keep and complete the ritual for creating a new astral anchor. The PCs can help by taking over the fortifications of the keep and holding off the attacking creatures. The creatures will attack in waves, beginning with groups of like creatures and then desperately banding together for a final all-out assault.*The meat of this adventure is the siege of the prison's inner keep. The magical ritual can take as long as you need it to take in order to keep things tense for the PCs, and there should be several waves of attackers before the final wave. Use the myriad abilities of the imprisoned creatures to their advantage, mesmerizing defenders, tunneling under the walls of the keep, flying over the walls, and so forth. Providing a stockpile of supplies and varying the number of defenders available to help the PCs will allow you to easily scale this adventure.*If the ritual is completed, the prison will return to the astral plane, and the PCs will be transported to the outskirts of town-their world safe once again.*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) alliance, combat-heavy, magic, mass combat, monster, siege, tactical planning*Abduction==Gone*The PCs have returned to their homeland after an extended time away. When they arrive they notice that one of the outlying farms has been abandoned. Farming implements are scattered on the ground, doors have been left open, and furniture is overturned.*Entering town, they find other abandoned houses in a similar state of disarray. As they get closer to the center of town, they find signs of a struggle: blood on the ground and overturned carts. When they reach the town hall, they see that it has been destroyed. Inside, the PCs find a note written by a citizen, telling how creatures wearing the sign of a white fist have come and taken people away each night for the past six nights.*The White Fist is a group of slavers led by a powerful ogre. Shortly after the PCs finish the note, a White Fist slaver party comes to town to round up anyone they might have missed; a fight ensues. The PCs then track the slavers back to an abandoned outpost near a river, where the larger White Fist party is encamped.*There they will discover that the last of the townspeople have been taken downriver by boat. The boat has become stuck downriver, giving the PCs a chance to catch up. They fight the slaver crew and free a small number of townspeople. Stashed aboard the boat is a map that indicates a large camp at the river's end.*The PCs arrive at the slaver fortress, where hundreds of people are imprisoned, awaiting transport across the sea. The PCs must then liberate the camp.*While it's helpful if the PCs have a connection to the town, it's not a necessity. The town needs to be in a remote location, as slavers never strike in an area where a large, organized army could repel them. This also prevents the townspeople or the PCs from going for help, as help wouldn't reach them in time.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) innocent, isolated area, relationship hook, siege, tactical planning, travel, villain==Changelings*In a backwater fishing and farming town on the edge of a cursed swamp, people are being afflicted with a strange malady. Those affected are clumsy, forgetful, confused, and have a feverish gleam in their eyes.*The culprits are a cluster of will-o'-the-wisps living in the marshes. After luring an unwary person into the swamp and mesmerizing him, they secrete him away in a trance-like state, read his mind, assume his shape, and then take his place. After a few weeks, the wisps have drawn off enough energy from those around them to reproduce, and have shattered into dozens of immature, invisible wisps. This wakes the sleeping victims, who may remember the experience as a hazy dream, having seen it through their connection to the wisp; the victims then head home. However, weakened, confused, and likely lost, they may fall victim to the other dangers of the swamp.*Interviews with the wisps in human form are frustrating. They remember enough to seem like the person who they're imitating, but are forgetful and bewildered, as if they have a fever or have sustained a blow to the head.*Wisps are unintelligent, so even though there are a few of them still in the swamp, if a PC asks a wisp in human form about will-o'-the-wisps, they won't provide any answers. The changeling routine is part of their reproductive cycle, and humans aren't required, or even preferred, as hosts-but the wisps don't know how to articulate that.*Searching the swamp for answers, the PCs discover people released from their trance state just wandering about. With more careful searches they find the hidden, entranced bodies of victims who they likely thought were in town. They may even notice that there are animals with similar symptoms to the townsfolk. Normal swamp hazards and dangers are still present too, and can be used to break up the investigative elements of this adventure.*Alerting the townsfolk to the nature of the problem should allow them to guard themselves against the wisps' lures. PCs that are more thorough may wish to thin the wisps' numbers or drive them further into the swamp with a series of hunts.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, monster, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit, twist==Season of the Beast*One of the PCs wakes up to hear a beautiful voice singing outside of her window. Looking outside, she sees no one-just a bird on a nearby branch. The bird is joined by two more birds and the singing voice becomes a chorus. The PC subsequently has many other instances of hearing voices when no one is there, until she finally realizes the truth: She now understands animal speech. Eventually, a rabbit asks the PC for help in freeing another rabbit from a trap. The rabbit will show the PC where a gold necklace is hidden if she helps them.*After that, the PC is approached many more times by animals asking for help. Most are incapable of comprehending the entirety of the situation and say only that "the nature spirit" said she would help. Eventually the PC is able to glean the nature of her newfound ability from what little the animals have said: She has been made an avatar of a nature spirit who is trapped somewhere and is unable to help itself.*The tasks start out small: The PC stops a farmer from building a dam and gets him to build it downstream. Soon, however, they grow in scope: The PC might fight unnatural creatures that are killing everything in a forest, or keep hunters from discovering a secret grove and be rewarded with a drink of magical water. Eventually, the animals reveal that the nature spirit is trapped by a dark priest who has unearthed an evil shrine buried deep in the woods. The priest is raising an undead army and is using the nature spirit to power the shrine.*The undead are already attacking towns near the shrine, and the PC will fend off an attack as she approaches it. The dark priest is at the shrine, surrounded by a large number of undead, and will fight to the death.*If the priest is defeated and the shrine destroyed, the spirit is freed and offers to either take the power back from the PC or let her keep it as a reward. One good tactic is to give the PC two or three minor druidic powers and allow her to keep one upon completion. Scaling the scope, number, and type of encounters changes the feel of the plot; it can become a simple mission to save a spirit or a quest to save a god. With a few changes, this plot can work just as well for a traditional adventuring party, not just a single PC.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) combat-heavy, innocent, isolated area, monster, religion, spirit, travel, villain==Slaves to the Young Drake*A juvenile dragon has decided to populate her new lair with slaves. Tickled by the idea that as a young dragon she should be served by young humans, she begins kidnapping local children while in human form. Once they're safely away, she then places them under an enchantment. The first few are set to digging out the cavern she has selected for her lair; the next several are selected as playmates, chosen for their amusement value. The third round will be chosen from among noble families and held hostage as insurance against attack.*The nearby settlement is up in arms, and fear has begun to set in. The PCs are asked to help, and they begin by talking to parents whose children have been abducted. Their stories are different, save for one underlying similarity: A kindly woman-sometimes young, sometimes old, and never the same in appearance-was present shortly before each disappearance, always doing something non-threatening.*Several more children are taken that night-and unlike the first several, who were bigger kids, these are younger children who are known for being pranksters. The woman is still mentioned, but now magic seems to be involved: The parents were on their guard, yet they did nothing to protect their children. Mix in the third round of abductions, the noble children, for pacing if necessary.*Likely suspects include the local thieves' guild, though kidnapping is usually outside their purview, a traveling fair that recently came to town, and the "old woman in the forest," who is believed to be a witch who eats children. Each can shed some light on the mystery. Fair folk suggest that the kidnapper wants an audience, or playmates, while the thieves point out that no ransom has been requested. The old woman in the forest, who is actually just a hermit, has seen the abductor, though she didn't know what she was witnessing.*When the PCs reach the dragon's lair, they'll find the children there; the dragon is also present, currently in human form. Stage the finale as a three-part scene: breaking the spell, rescuing the children, and fighting the dragon. The children have to be freed of the enchantment, or they won't flee; this can be done using magic possessed by the PCs or through highly successful diplomacy. Once free, they must be taken out of the lair safely-and of course the dragon will assume her true form, complicating matters as she does her best to kill the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MR) deadline, innocent, investigative, magic, monster, social, tactical planning, villain*The Enigma==Surrender*Without warning, one of the PCs' most hated foes simply turns up on their doorstep, alone and unarmed, and surrenders to them on the spot-no strings attached. No group of players will take this at face value, and you have three options: her surrender is part of a scheme, she's mind-controlled, or she's sincere.*A good villain is always scheming against the PCs, and this is what your players will think is going on. Perhaps she wants to find out a specific piece of information, and knows her best chance of learning it is if she gets them to let their guard down. Or maybe she's after something of theirs, and needs to see it in person in order to give her wizard allies the best chance of teleporting it away from the PCs. She has a contingency plan for her escape, of course: a mental link to a mage who can teleport her out, or a group of ambushers awaiting her signal.*If she has been mind-controlled, who cast the spell? Was it another villain, or perhaps an underling looking for a particularly cruel way to eliminate her? And can the PCs break the spell? The mind control could also be due to spirit possession (in which case the spirit might leave her body and attack the PCs-joined by the villain, who sees a golden opportunity), or to a malfunctioning magic item. Once they find out, acting on that information is an adventure in its own right.*Your players will have the hardest time believing that she's sincere, but this option opens up the most interesting roleplaying opportunities. Why did she surrender? Was it out of genuine remorse for her evil deeds, because of a religious experience, or due to some other factor? How does she convince them of her sincerity? Do they turn her over to the authorities, imprison her-or even execute her on the spot? And who else will have a stake in her fate, once word of her surrender gets out?*No matter which option you choose, this plot will surprise your players, and it has the potential to take your campaign in a direction that they didn't expect-particularly if they were predicting a showdown with their nemesis in the near future. Just be careful not to rob them of a showdown that they were eagerly anticipating.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) betrayal, difficult choice, intrigue, madness, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, twist, villain==The Griffon's Claw*For years there has been a pact between a dragon that lives atop a mountain and the people living in the town at the foot of that mountain: The people leave the dragon alone, and the dragon allows the people to live in peace. When the dragon landed in the town square and destroyed the blacksmith's house with its fiery breath, it was a sign that something had changed.*The dragon accused the town of cooperating in an attack upon him, and of the theft of a valuable artifact. The mayor denied the town's involvement, but the dragon didn't believe him. It dropped a torn tabard bearing the symbol of a griffon clutching an axe at the mayor's feet, and delivered an ultimatum: Return the artifact in five days time or the pact is null and void, and the town will be razed to the ground.*In the ensuing panic, the PCs are enlisted to find out who attacked the dragon and to recover the artifact. They begin by investigating the symbol, which belongs to a group of adventurers called the Griffon's Claw. Townsfolk can tell them that the Griffon's Claw band stayed in town two nights ago, and that they hail from a nearby town.*After a two-day journey, the Griffon's Claw party can be tracked down on the road to the nearest city, where they plan to sell the artifact. They're a stereotypical adventuring party, and have no intention of returning the artifact, though they will happily sell it for a steep price. If confronted about their attack on the dragon, they're not remorseful-after all, they say, dragons are evil.*The Griffon's Claw should be equal in power to the PCs, and can be flamboyant (for a humorous adventure) or cold and calculating (for a darker tone). The PCs can fight them for the artifact, come up with a ruse to steal it from them, or try other tactics as they desire.*En route back to the dragon's lair (another two-day journey), the PCs will encounter inclement weather, threatening their chances of returning the artifact in time to save the town. If they make it in time, the dragon honors its side of the bargain.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) deadline, innocent, travel==Darkstone City*When the world was young, a demon lord discovered a lake of cooled obsidian deep in the mountains and, with his own claws, carved an entire city large enough for giants from this enormous block of volcanic glass. Etched on every surface are sigils and runes. Not only are these in some ancient demon-cursed script, each character of which is blasphemous, but they are encoded as well. Keys can be found in other sections of writing, the positions of buildings, or any number of other forms.*All sorts of demons and spirits haunt the cursed city, but desperate seekers of knowledge still make their way to the forbidding site. It is said of the city that all knowledge is hidden within, waiting for those who can decipher it. The PCs are in the city because they, or an employer, have received a vision of the city that shows them where the answer to an important problem lies. It's up to the PCs to steal into the city, transcribe the cursed script, and get out alive.*Getting to the city is no small feat. It lies deep within the mountains, and its presence has attracted all sorts of foul beasts and warped natural creatures. The PCs will have to contend with both the environment and the twisted fauna.*Once in the city, finding the spot they're looking for is a task in and of itself. The city is scaled for giants and covers a large area, and it seems to change layout from time to time. In addition, though the city is dead, its alleyways are populated by living seekers obsessed with searching its streets, the dead who call the city their grave, and the demons and other fell creatures attracted to this fell place.*Once the PCs transcribe the writing they need, unless they're able to immediately decode and translate it, they'll carry a bit of the city's taint with them. Animals will be nervous around the scroll they carry, people will be uneasy around them, and all sorts of foul beings will be able to sense the presence of powerful evil. Towns and waysides turn the PCs away, and some townsfolk will even follow them for a nighttime ambush or roadside robbery.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) bearers, city, exploration, investigative, isolated area, magic, monster, shady, spirit, stealth, travel==Letting Sleeping Giants Lie*In an isolated hamlet, villagers begin succumbing to a strange disease. At first, it's like a flu or seasonal allergy, but soon warts and other growths appear and become monstrous mutations. The villagers send a representative to seek aid from local governments, only to be turned away because of his hideous appearance. The representative may approach the PCs directly, they may hear tales of the village, or they may encounter the village along their journeys, seemingly stepping into a polite society of monstrous creatures.*Life goes on like normal except for the changed appearances and adaptations of the villagers. Some blame the ancient abandoned castle up the hill. Observant PCs or villagers may notice that fish in the river grow multiple legs or that some animals have human faces. The crops that are nearest to the river grow to enormous sizes, and the river runs near the castle, leading people to believe that it's the source of the troubles. While in the village, the PCs see one of the villagers undergo a rapid transformation, becoming a powerful monster. The mutated villager attacks anyone in sight and doesn't stop until killed. This makes the other villagers fearful for what will happen to them.*Signs of mutation get stronger closer to the castle: Plants sprout up instantly, blocking the PCs' way, many hostile mutated creatures attack the party, and strange voices talk to them from out of thin air. The trip to the castle should feel like being in a fairytale.*The castle shows signs of great age and wear, but is intact. From deep inside, what sounds like snoring can be heard. Here, a malevolent, incorporeal shadow creature stands before a sleeping giant. Nearby is an overturned jug, its glowing water flowing endlessly into the river. The shadow creature explains that the giant lost a drinking contest, which the shadow engineered; it appears frustrated, but it won't say more until it knows the PCs' intentions. The shadow creature can't touch the liquid itself, but it wants the liquid and it knows about the village. It plans to use the mutated villagers as its personal army.*The PCs must defeat the shadow, which they can do by waking the giant, dousing the shadow with the liquid, or through other means as you see fit. If the giant is awakened, he'll defeat the shadow and cure the townsfolk, apologizing for the trouble he unwittingly caused. He may reveal a treasure hidden in the castle as a reward.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, monster, spirit, villain*Obtaining==Delving the Old Base*While traveling along a coastal road, the PCs notice a large ship headed towards their destination: a large town up ahead. Seeing no sails or means of mechanical propulsion, they conclude that it's likely powered by strong magic. Sometime after the PCs arrive, they discover that the ship is docked and trading with the townspeople. There are several oddities regarding the transactions that pique the attention of the PCs: The traders are buying very little food, none of the townspeople are allowed to carry their goods onto the ship, and a few friendly crew members carouse in the bars and express relief at being on the mainland and having "real people" to talk to.*Upon interacting with the crew members, the PCs are invited on board and soon discover the reason for the curious behavior: The rest of the crew members are non-organics such as golems, elementals, or constructs. The captain is a powerful wizard who offers the PCs pay and passage anywhere they like if they raid an old military base to acquire an artifact for him. He explains, somewhat begrudgingly, that the mission requires more creativity and quick thinking than his crew can provide.*The journey to the old base takes some time, and the PCs have plenty of opportunities to interact with the non-organics; they're single-minded in their tasks and literal in their speech. The PCs find that the captain is uncooperative and unfriendly. His aloofness may suggest ill intentions to the PCs, but is, in fact, simply due to his preference for non-organic company.*Once they arrive, the PCs encounter an array of obstacles: odorless flammable gases from alchemical workspaces, flooded corridors, broken magical lifts and stairways, magical traps, and enemy non-organics. Along the way, they find clues suggesting that the artifact is hidden on the lowest level. To reach it, the PCs must overcome a slew of non-organics. The creatures fight as if their lives depend on protecting the artifact-which they do, since it acts as their power source.*The artifact is actually a cage for a living magical being. Tapped for its life force and in constant pain, the being gives off tremendous amounts of energy. It begs the PCs for death, which is its only chance for release. The PCs are thus faced with a moral choice: They must either kill the creature, betraying their mission and losing their pay, or inform the captain of the situation, leaving the creature in agony.*If the PCs choose the latter, they may be surprised to learn that the captain is appalled by the nature of this magic, and wants the PCs to return to release the poor creature. He's still happy to provide payment in full. Use this plot to shake up PCs who are used to being double-crossed by employers or are mistrustful of NPCs.*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) artificial life form, combat-heavy, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, exploration, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, magic, mass combat, shady, siege, stealth, tactical planning, trade, travel, twist==Last Ship to Leave*While attempting to leave a city by boat, the PCs are repeatedly turned away. Boats are delayed for inspection, they weigh anchor in the middle of the night, or they cancel plans to travel to the PCs' destination. Even if the party convinces a ship to take them on as passengers, the captain reneges on the agreement later. Everything seems coincidental. If the characters must leave town to attend urgent business or to avoid pursuit, this could be much more than a minor inconvenience.*The PCs discover that they're being tailed and spied upon. When confronted, the observers will put up a fight, but won't use lethal force and will scatter if badly wounded. If the PCs follow, their shadows will try to lose them in back alleys and bolt holes. If captured, they will be reluctant to talk unless put under duress. With pressure or legwork, the men can be identified as thugs who are often employed by a local criminal organization.*When the PCs are finally almost underway, a saboteur is discovered below decks. During questioning, a second group sneaks aboard and begins to slash rigging and otherwise sabotage the ship. While the PCs can drive them off with a running battle, the damage has been done and the captain wants no more trouble. He flatly declines the PCs' business.*Convincing the reluctant sea captains to talk is a trying affair. Most have been bribed or threatened to ensure their silence, so similar leverage or a few barrels of grog will need to be applied to make them cooperate. City officials, who are holding up ships at an unprecedented rate, are just as taciturn. If someone is convinced to talk, the characters can track all the delays back to a single bureaucrat. A scathing older woman, she refuses to explain her actions and insists that she's just doing her job.*She's intentionally tracking the PCs and hampering their travel plans, both through legal and illegal means, because her daughter developed a crush on one of the PCs when she met them in the city. The bureaucrat hopes that keeping the PCs around will give her daughter enough time to work up the courage to introduce herself. If the PCs convince her to share her reasons, they may be able to bargain a date with the woman's daughter for their freedom.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MN) city, innocent, intrigue, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, travel==Asking Nicely*A plague befalls the PCs' home town while they're away on an adventure. When they return home, they're met by a man wrapped in rags; he is the last living member of the local church. He tells the PCs not to come into the town, which is ravaged by plague, and explains that in order to save the town they must quest for the Salve of Purity. The Salve is located in a remote temple, far from the town.*The PCs must travel to the temple. They'll have at least one encounter en route with bandits who are planning to raid their home town, knowing that it will be undefended. The temple itself is located atop a mountain, and reaching it is a challenge; tough climbing, rock slides, and bad weather all interfere with the PCs' mission.*Inside the temple, the PCs face several challenges designed to test their resolve. These include a test of faith (walking headlong into an illusion of something dangerous), a test of their knowledge of the gods, and a test of strength (facing a superior foe).*When they have completed the challenges, the PCs enter a holy chamber of incredible beauty. The Salve of Purity sits upon an altar. As the PCs approach it, an avatar of the church's deity appears between them and the salve. It explains to the PCs that before they can claim the Salve they must convince the avatar that its use is needed and that those who claim it are worthy.*The PCs cannot harm or directly affect the avatar; no spell will be effective, and no attack has a hope of hurting it. They must persuade the avatar with their wits alone. The avatar will question the value of the town and the people in it-which, depending on the nature of the town, could make for a difficult argument. How will the PCs convince the avatar to give them the Salve so that they can save the village?*This scene can be tricky to resolve. You should come up with three to five points that the PCs must make in order to convince the avatar to give up the Salve, and allow them appropriate checks to learn how many points they must make, or the themes of each point. The avatar should be played according to the nature of the deity it represents: compassionate for a god of healing, cruel for a god of war, etc.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supers, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) innocent, isolated area, religion, roleplaying-heavy, travel==The Impregnable Vault*The PCs are offered an unusual opportunity: break into a local castle's impregnable treasure vault and live to tell the tale. The castle guards are known for their vigilance and their brutality, and the noble who owns the castle is a cruel man with a penchant for torturing prisoners-but the woman making the offer is one of the most famous cat burglars alive. She claims to know a surefire way into the vault-one that guarantees that the PCs won't get caught. She can't do it alone, and she's only after one specific item; if they help her, the PCs can take anything else they like from the vault.*For many groups, an offer like this might be a tough sell. You can sweeten it by linking a PC's background to the villainous noble, involving the noble's past deeds as a motivator, giving the party a reason to seek revenge against the noble, or putting something in the vault that the PCs desperately need. The key elements of the burglar's plan are creating a distraction, incapacitating a roomful of guards, navigating a trap-filled passageway, and a performing a complex magical ritual that will allow entry into the vault.*The distraction is a magical explosive, which the PCs must plant near the castle gates while the burglar quietly breaches the wall in another area. The room full of guards is centrally located, and can't be bypassed; the guards can be fought, misled, or otherwise dealt with. The trap-filled passageway is similarly unavoidable, but the thief will be able to aid the party in surviving the traps. Once they reach the vault, she employs a dangerous magical incantation that temporarily makes one wall of the vault permeable, giving the party a few minutes inside. This ritual nearly kills her, however, forcing the PCs to take charge of getting everyone out of the castle without being caught.*You have several options concerning the thief that can completely transform this adventure. Is she telling the truth, or is she lying to the PCs? Will she double-cross them once the deed is done? Is the object she's after something that no hero could abide being outside of the vault, like a doomsday weapon? Is her plan as foolproof as she says it is? Is she actually working for the noble, testing his security and giving him some new prisoners to torture at the same time?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, sandbox, shady, stealth, tactical planning, twist*Enmity of Kinsmen==Pulled Back In*A member of a powerful organization, such as a family, guild, or secret society, bears a grudge against a PC who belongs to that same group. Because of this member's hatred of her, the PC no longer has close ties to the group.*While the party is resting, an attempt is made on the PC's life from a distance, by way of an arrow or spell. The attacker cannot be found. A few days later, the attacker tries again. A third attempt follows soon thereafter, but this time up close. When the PCs defeat the assassin, clues on his body indicate that he was hired by PC's foe within the organization.*A day or so later, the PC will discover that she is being followed. This time, the pursuer is not an assassin, though the PCs will likely suspect otherwise, but rather is the retainer of a friendly member of the organization. He brings word that the organization's leader is dying and the PC's foe is the most likely candidate for succession.*If the PC does nothing, the foe will become the new leader and bring the full power of the organization down upon the PC, leaving her no peace. If the PC opposes the rival as the next leader, a power struggle will ensue. In this case, there are several things to consider. Would the PC actually want to lead the organization? How would this affect her adventuring? Is there another candidate for leader that the PC could support instead? If so, how can the PC best lend her support? Or can the foe and the PC make a deal, so that the foe wins leadership but leaves the PC alone?*This plot can be an excellent way to open a campaign, as it allows you to begin using elements of one PC's background-the organization and the hated foe-right out of the gate. Seeing this immediate connection between a PC's background and the campaign world can help all of your players become more invested in the game.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) city, difficult choice, intrigue, politics, social, villain==Complicated Kinship*A small boy approaches one of the older PCs and claims that the PC is his father. The child says, "I know you! You're my father and you never came back! I hate you!" and runs away. The child runs to a small alleyway behind an inn and ducks inside the back door. He may grab something from the PC before running, if you want to ensure that the PCs give chase.*The boy is the bastard child of a local royal and a barmaid; he seeks to involve the PCs in an attempt to draw out his real father. The mother keeps the identity of the boy's father a secret. If the connection is discovered, rivals might kill the child or use him for political gain.*Inside the inn, the mother shields the child as he shouts about his real father. After quieting the boy and sending him to his room, she apologizes and offers the PCs a free night's stay. She explains that the boy feels abandoned by his father and expresses remorse at not being able to tell him the truth. She asks only that the PCs keep her secret. An agent of a rival noble house overhears the child and the story, and later that night he kidnaps the child from his room.*The agent returns, demanding help from the PCs in blackmailing the royal with the information about the child. The child will be killed if the PCs don't help. The PCs are to deliver a message to the royal and demand a ransom.*Provide some way for the PCs to get audience with the royal. When told about the situation, he asks the PCs to rescue the child on his behalf, as the royal cares for the child but cannot act publicly. He'll provide details on the nobleman's house, including a secret passage through the wine cellar; he also warns that the kidnapper is devious and employs many layers of protection in his schemes. The royal will punish the nobleman in private and reward the PCs once the child is safe.*Sneaking into the nobleman's house, the PCs find it well-fortified and on high alert. Guards patrol the area, traps are set, and the child is securely hidden. This plot can be played as a covert, stealth-driven scenario, but if the PCs are discovered it will quickly become a vicious fight to escape.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western *Tags: (JA) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, politics, shady, stealth, villain==The Good, and the Bad and Ugly*A friend of the PCs recently obtained his family's ancestral manse after the passing of his mother. He was dismayed to discover that the house was haunted and that there had been several near-fatal accidents. He is convinced the culprit is the unquiet spirit of his mother, and has followed the instructions of numerous experts to lay her to rest, even to the point of wooing and proposing to a young woman his mother had especially liked.*In truth, his brothers were born as disfigured conjoined twins, and have been hidden in the house their entire lives; his family has kept them a closely guarded secret. Rooms and hallways of the manse were converted to hidden chambers for them. With no one to talk to but each other and their mother, and nothing to do but read, the brothers have become very talented wizards. They're also more than a little eccentric. They believe that the house is theirs and they hate their brother, resenting both the normal life he's had and the fact that he's trying to take their home. These secrets are revealed in the mother's diary, which is skillfully hidden behind a locked secret panel in her bedroom.*The brothers are illusionists, and the secret areas of the house are equipped with spy holes, allowing them to create phantasms throughout the house at will. Searching the manse, the PCs will encounter ghostly phenomena, culminating in a full-body apparition of the mother, while small objects are hurled about, potentially injuring the PCs. This could be treated as a fight or as a skill-based challenge.*The brothers will try to split the PCs up by manifesting phenomena in different locales, thereby starting multiple simultaneous chase scenes. Once isolated, PCs will be led into dead-falls or other traps and attacked by illusory "ghosts."*Once the concealed passages are discovered, the brothers will retreat to hidden rooms within the secret areas of the manse and will become more aggressive. They will again try to separate the PCs with illusions and will complement their traps and illusory attackers with attacks through spy holes.*When the brothers are found, they'll become belligerent and attack if they think the odds are in their favor. They must be knocked out or calmed so that the PC's friend can attempt to negotiate with them. If the brothers are killed, the friend may hold a grudge against the PCs and become a recurring foe.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, investigative, magic, race, stealth, twist==Inheriting Trouble*A PC's relative dies, leaving her land and estate to the PC.  Before the party can reach the estate, the relative's in-laws-who feel that the estate should have gone to them-simply move in and take over, running off the servants and installing their own staff and guards.*En route to the estate, the PCs hear sounds of fighting in the woods. They come upon a battle in progress: a party of hunters locked in combat with a group of bandits. If the PCs aid them, the hunters don't seem particularly grateful for their help. They glare at the party and disappear into the woods.*At the estate, the PCs find workers making repairs, guards on patrol (including the hunters from the forest), and the in-laws installed as lords of the estate. They ungraciously welcome the PCs, offer perfunctory words of consolation for their loss, and tell the party to get off their land. The PCs won't be able to deter them with diplomacy, and they have bribed local officials to declare them the rightful heirs to the estate.*The structure of the rest of this adventure depends on your group. Some players will want to use magic or force to drive the in-laws away, while others will work the government angle, trying to remove them by lawful means, or by uncovering the corrupt officials who made the takeover "legal." Some will try more creative solutions, like convincing the in-laws that the estate is haunted or driving off the servants and seeing how long the in-laws can survive without them.*Later in the adventure, while the PCs are on the estate, the bandits will return in force with the intention of killing every last person they find. The PCs can work with the in-laws to beat back the attack, let the bandits and the in-laws duke it out, or find their own solution to this open-ended encounter. The bandits won't lay siege to the estate; instead, they'll use guerilla tactics to break in at multiple points and try to gain control from within.*If resolved in the PCs' favor, with the in-laws driven out and the bandit attack repulsed, this adventure can change the scope of your campaign. Owning land, keeping the estate well-supplied, and defending it against other threats can become the new focus of your game.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) betrayal, epic impact, relationship hook, rivalry, sandbox, siege, tactical planning*==Wizards' Rivalry*Two members of a prominent wizards' guild seek a very rare spell component. The wizard who possesses the component will win prestige and bragging rights. The two mages are aware of only one place where the component can be found: inside a ruined wizards' school. They decide to make things interesting by turning their hunt into a contest. Each hires a group of adventurers to retrieve the component, and promises the use of only minor magic to "make things interesting" for the adventurers.*The PCs are hired by one of the wizards to retrieve this component for a fee. What the wizard doesn't tell the PCs is that there's a second group of adventurers who are on the same quest at nearly the same time.*The next morning, when the PCs are ready to leave for the ruins, they find that their horses are gone; a small trick by the rival wizard. Little things like this keep happening to the PCs until they reach the ruins. After suffering several magical practical jokes, the PCs reach the ruins and begin their exploration. Along the way, they discover that they're  not alone. Signs of battle, monster blood, doors that have been spiked shut, and ropes hung from high ledges indicate that others are present in the ruins.*Following one or more encounters with monsters, the PCs reach the chamber containing the component. The other group of adventurers arrives at the same time. How will the PCs react? Will they try to make a deal with the other adventurers? Who will get the components to their patron first?*Depending on the tone of your campaign and the nature of the other adventuring party, this plot can be serious or funny. It can be light-hearted if the parties try to trick or steal the components from one another, or gritty and dark if the rival adventurers become violent and try to kill the "poachers." If they survive, you can also use the other party as recurring rivals throughout your campaign.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) dungeon crawl, magic, monster, race, rivalry==Wanted: Dead*Entering a city that they've visited before, the PCs see a wanted poster that depicts their party. The listed crimes-all heinous acts, including murder-are entirely untrue, but the poster offers a significant bounty for their heads. Give them a chance to go to ground before anyone spots them, but not before they have a notice that nearly every local is armed. Once in hiding, the party can discuss the posters: Why are they wanted? Who did they piss off recently? Should they present themselves to the magistrate and try to explain the situation?*The posters are part of a plot by a group of corrupt rival adventurers (the party's "kinsmen," after a fashion), who want them out of the way so that they can fill the PCs' shoes, claiming glory and treasure for adventures in this region. The rivals committed the crimes themselves and successfully pinned them on the PCs. They're behind the reward money, and they've bribed a corrupt city magistrate to overlook the holes in their story-and the crimes themselves-in favor of a full-on manhunt for the PCs.*While the PCs are investigating the situation, they hear many locals praising the adventurers who caught them in the act-and who even now are pursuing them tirelessly. The adventurers are believed to have followed the PCs' trail out into the forest, and they're counting on citizens to stay vigilant in their absence. This is largely true: The scoundrels are hiding out in the forest, but they're really just waiting for the city watch or an angry mob to take out the PCs for them.*Skilled adventurers in their own right, the rivals have formed an alliance with a tribe of kobolds in the forest, who they've hired as scouts. If the kobolds spot the PCs, they'll alert the rivals. Though their guard is relaxed, the adventurers aren't easy prey-and killing them won't solve the PCs' problem: They must also convince the city that they're innocent, and that the crimes of which they are accused were actually committed by the rival adventurers.*En route back to the city, the kobolds strike; they haven't been paid yet, and they'll try to take the party's gold to make up for it. If the PCs took the rivals prisoner, they may be able to resolve the situation through diplomatic means, perhaps by convincing the kobolds that their employers are going to get their just desserts. You can close the adventure with a dramatic courtroom scene, if that would work well with your group.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) betrayal, city, intrigue, rivalry, sandbox, social, stealth, tactical planning, villain==Fraternal Filching*Two boisterous brothers are working to outdo each other by robbing caravans and travelers in a contest of thievery. Their style is so grandiose that bookies take bets to see which brother will acquire more stolen goods.*The PCs may discover this by witnessing a robbery, or when a bookie asks if they encountered any thieves on their way into town (in order to calculate an accurate tally). A bookie could also hire the PCs to fix the results by hindering one of the brothers, or they might simply be drawn in by the massive reward offered for the brothers' capture.*The brothers are amiable and refuse to rob the poor. They're not Robin Hood-like, since they keep what they steal, but they've nonetheless become folk heroes. The PCs should be able to track down one of the brothers using information from the bookies. He explains that he steals only from the rich, and that he really does it for the glory-and he asks the PCs help in outdoing his brother on the next heist, offering a bigger reward than the one for his capture. The heist is a caravan of fine goods for the wedding of a duchess. It's common knowledge that the other brother has his eye on the same loot.*As the caravan rolls into town a few days later, each brother is preparing to relieve it of its cargo in a different way. One brother plans to sweep in with a contingent of mounted bandits and hold up the caravan, while the other intends to trap the caravan on a bridge and load all of the goods onto a waiting boat. Local law enforcement has caught wind of the heist and will show up as well.*For the heist scene, every element of the robbery should come crashing together in a riot of action. In the chaos, one of the brothers will escape with the loot and retreat to a mountain hideout. He and his followers will put up a vigorous fight against anyone who tries to bring them in. If the brothers are stopped or captured, local authorities will reward the PCs. If the PCs help either brother, he'll reward them with stolen loot-and he pays better.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) alliance, deadline, innocent, mass combat, race, rivalry, shady, social, stealth, tactical planning, trade==Race with Two Finish Lines*Two heirs are positioned to inherit a small kingdom, but it's uncertain which of them will actually get it. There is, however, a sword symbolizing the royal family that would seriously tip the balance in the favor of its owner, and both heirs have contracted parties of adventurers to procure it from the long-abandoned keep from which their family used to rule.*While the general location of the keep is known, its exact location is not, and the surrounding countryside is difficult terrain; the party will likely have to get directions from locals or hire a guide once they arrive. If they're behind their competitors, it's possible that anyone they get information from is one of their competitors or has been bribed to mislead them.*The keep has been taken over by intelligent humanoid inhabitants, and they've repaired the old drawbridge and portcullis at the main gate. Getting in will require outwitting them or finding an alternate entrance. The sword itself was being held by the lord of the keep when he fell in battle somewhere inside. It's currently in the hands of the biggest, meanest monster in the keep.*After the sword is retrieved, the opposing group will lay in ambush and even endanger civilian targets, such as those at the inn where the PCs are resting, in order to take the sword from them.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MN) alliance, deadline, dungeon crawl, intrigue, race, rivalry, siege, stealth*Murderous Adultery==Too Much of a Good Thing*Years ago, a narcissistic adventurer married a nobleman and used his fortune and standing to further her career. When she was later lost at sea and presumed dead, the noble was devastated. Sparing no expense, he hired artisans to craft a perfect simulacrum of his dead wife. When she unexpectedly returned home alive and well, both she and her replacement were outraged. The distraught husband convinced them to enter into a smoldering truce until a solution could be found. Since then, two servants have disappeared, and the house steward, fearing the worst, has written the PCs asking for help.*When the PCs arrive, their host and his two wives are polite but self-absorbed. They only see the PCs at dinner each night. The noble is happy to listen to any suggestions the PCs have, but each wife rejects any solution that reduces her claim to the fortune or puts her influence at stake. During these meals, the PCs may realize that the animosity between the wives is mostly an act.*The steward is suspicious of the wives' claim that they discovered the missing servants stealing and discharged them; he considered the servants trustworthy. The PCs' search finds no witnesses to the servants' departure, but there are signs of violent struggle outside one of the wives' rooms.*The wives refuse searches of their rooms, and the noble backs them up, so the PCs will have to find a time when they aren't there to snoop around. Dinnertime is a good option, or they can shadow them and wait for another opportunity. Shadowing them reveals that the wives spend most of their time alone in their rooms, but for several hours a night, one will visit with the other. One of the suites is an unremarkable, if lavishly decorated, guest room. The other is an opulent lady's suite, but a careful search reveals a secret staircase leading to the long-unused dungeons. There, guarded by summoned monsters and the undead remains of the missing servants, are numerous books on poisons and a series of lists divvying up the noble's estate between the two wives-proof that they're trying to kill him.*If the wives discover that the PCs are onto them and believe they can salvage their plot by simply killing the party, they'll try to do so. The wives have similar skill sets but don't have to be identical. If the PCs manage to reveal the wives' plans to the noble first, the wives will first try to convince their husband that the PCs are lying in order to have them imprisoned or banished.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, intrigue, investigative, politics, shady, stealth, villain==Love, But Not So True*The wife of a local duke has been caught having an affair with another noble, and the duke throws them both in prison to await their execution. The noble's brother uses a magic ritual to try to break the noble out, and instead winds up releasing all of the prisoners into the city's sewer system-an ancient maze of monster-inhabited tunnels. When the duke finds out, he relents in his anger and hires the PCs to track down his wife and as many of the prisoners as they can; he also supplies two units of the city watch to aid them.*The sewers are a nightmarish place, overrun with wererats and other creatures. (Mapping only a few small sections and using skill checks or other mechanics to get the PCs from encounter to encounter will work just fine.) The first encounter is a run-in with a group of prisoners who try to barter with the PCs for their freedom. They'll fight if the PCs and their watch allies try to capture them, and if any are killed the survivors will round up other prisoners and mount an ambush against the PCs later in the adventure.*The second encounter starts with a watch unit going missing-one moment they're right behind the PCs, and the next they're simply gone. Tracking them down in the dark, mucky sewers is a challenge in its own right. Their trail leads to a wererat nest-an awful place, thick with the stench of rats and sewage-where the watch soldiers are being prepared as the main course in a wererat feast. During the battle, the wererats will split into two groups: One group will fight the PCs, while the others try to spirit off the watch unit so that they can keep their dinner.*When the PCs find the duke's wife and her lover, they implore the party not to bring them back to the duke. They say that the duke will kill them both if they go back, and ask that the party instead help them escape. In exchange, the noble will tell them where most of the prisoners went, enabling the party to succeed at that portion of their mission. The noble is evil, and will scheme against the PCs if they don't accede, looking for a chance to escape-even abandoning or wounding his lover, if doing so will let him get away.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) alliance, city, combat-heavy, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, monster, politics==700==-Year Itch*The PCs are stopped in the middle of whatever task is at hand by the avatar of a goddess. She makes much ado about the PCs being chosen as worthy to serve her in a most important endeavor. A wicked wench tricked her husband into committing adultery, and she wants the woman to pay. The goddess won't be placated by anything less than the woman's life in payment for this grave insult-and she wants the PCs to help her collect. The goddess will gladly force the PCs into helping if they don't agree, using magical spells, threats, or any means she feels necessary. The avatar tells the PCs where the girl resides and bids them be on their way.*The PCs have little choice but to comply, but they're unaware of the true situation. If, on the way to find the woman, the PCs search for information in any place where the stories of the gods are told, they'll hear another side to the story. In this version, the god forced himself on the woman and forbade his wife from taking revenge. His wife, the goddess, sees the PCs as a loophole.*Upon reaching the town where the woman lives, the PCs are approached by another, lesser god. He wishes to help the PCs and avoid perpetuating this great injustice against the woman, but he doesn't have the power to confront the goddess or her husband directly. He directs them to a sunken city, accessible through a series of caves, where they can find a magical stone that will allow them to travel undetected by the wife. He suggests that her husband can be reasoned with, and might even intervene if they make their case at his most holy temple, far from the woman's town.*After questing for the stone, the PCs can travel safely to the temple to plead their case. Convincing the husband should be difficult, and may involve pandering to his outsized ego. This can be accomplished through roleplaying or through a tough challenge handled using your game's resolution system. If they succeed in convincing the husband to help them, then he will stop the wife from interfering with the PCs ever again. If they fail, he'll send a great monster to attack them and then forget all about them. Luckily, he will then move onto his next conquest and his wife's wrath will turn towards a new victim.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (JA) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, innocent, isolated area, monster, religion, roleplaying-heavy==One Last Goodbye*The queen's body has been stolen. She was laid to rest only a week ago after being murdered in a dark elf raid; the king has vowed revenge for this violation. He is amassing troops in the capital city, and is calling for war.*The PCs receive word from the late queen's handmaiden, who offers what money she has for the PCs to retrieve the queen's body. The handmaiden tells them that her body is in the realm of the dark elves, in the tower of a powerful wizard. If the body is returned, war may be averted.*The PCs venture into the domain of the dark elves, seeking the wizard's tower. Along the way, they face underworld creatures, natural hazards, and dark elf patrols; adjust the number of encounters to the desired length of the adventure.*When they reach the tower, the must overcome arcane defenses and traps in order to gain entrance. After a difficult climb to the tower's top level, they'll face the wizard himself. The wizard will tell the PCs that he was the queen's lover for many years, unbeknownst to the king. He'll show them proof that the queen didn't die in a dark elf raid, but rather was killed by the king when he found out about their affair. The wizard sent his agents to retrieve the queen's body so that he could see her one last time.*The PCs must decide if they wish to leave the queen's body with the wizard or take her back to her kingdom. The wizard won't fight the PCs if they want to take the body back to the surface; he will only ask for a few moments to say goodbye to his love.*Now that the PCs know the truth, what will they do about it? If they say nothing, the king will wage a war under false pretense, which will result in deaths on both sides. If they confront the king, he'll try to kill the PCs in order to conceal his deception. If the king is exposed, the people will rebel after hearing of the murder of their beloved queen.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, epic impact, exploration, intrigue, isolated area, monster, politics, social, twist*Madness==Music for the Masses*A new performer has been captivating audiences in the area, and tales of his intoxicating music have spread like wildfire. Each show throws more kindling on the flames as fan fervor over this bard rapidly escalates. After each successive performance there's an outbreak of sudden arguments, violence, and public intimate encounters among those who attend. It seems the bard's music inspires people to uncontrollable heights of passion. The PCs may be drawn in by noticing the ever increasing hysteria, or when one or more of the PCs is in the audience for a show and becomes a devoted fan.*A rival bard, well-versed in magical ways, covertly approaches the PCs. He tells them that the situation reeks of magic, and gives the PCs a charm that will prevent them from being affected. He doesn't know exactly how it's being done, but begs the PCs to stop the influence of the bard's magic before it gets out of control. While this conversation is taking place, rabid fans make an attempt to kill the rival bard, claiming that jealousy is driving him to undermine their hero.*Fans display kindness toward anyone expressing appreciation of the bard's music and disproportionate anger toward anyone  who seems ambivalent or disinterested. This results in many interesting fights or amorous advances for the PCs to become involved in: Fans might attack the PCs (causing a fight against innocents that must be handled carefully), and people may attempt to steal money from the party in order to throw it to the bard. Interactions with fans should make the PCs realize that tonight's performance will have major consequences.*If the PCs attend a performance, the bard himself looks worried. He understands that fans' reactions to his music are unnatural, but can't seem to stop playing. He plays calming songs, but the fans scream for rousing jigs. Perceptive PCs, or those with magical abilities, might notice that the bard's instrument seems to be compelling him to play against his will. If the bard, or his instrument, is attacked, rabid fans will attack the PCs. If the instrument is destroyed, the effect will dissipate immediately and the people will return to normal.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) city, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, madness, roleplaying-heavy, social, twist==The Secret of the Madness*The PCs learn of a ruined school of magic that was once the greatest such school in the kingdom, now rumored to be home to great treasures, tomes of lost knowledge, and a powerful artifact. No one knows what befell the school or the wizards within it, and those who have entered haven't returned. The whole situation is more than any adventuring party can resist.*The expedition into the school begins without any unexpected problems. Monsters have occupied the lower floors, but they're nothing that the PCs haven't dealt with before. It isn't until they reach the third floor that they see signs of real trouble: The walls are scrawled with arcane symbols, broken magic circles are found in some of the rooms, and decayed bodies are scattered about in the hallways. That's when the madness strikes. Gradually, the PCs fall under the effect of a potent magical spell-one that spiraled out of control years ago. As the madness creeps in it will seed distrust among the PCs, preying upon their rivalries and increasing tensions. While their bonds as a team begin to crumble, the PCs must survive the more powerful creatures that have moved onto this floor.*The best way to simulate the madness is to write notes for each player. As each PC succumbs to the madness, give that PC's player her note. The note describes a prejudice or delusion about one of the other PCs for her character to act upon. Use, adapt, or create a mechanic that allows the PCs to resist the actions forced upon them by the madness. The goal is to simulate a breakdown of party cohesion that adds a sense of urgency to completing the PCs' mission, not to force your players to act against their wishes.*The madness is the result of a powerful artifact that was activated by one of the original wizards who lived in the school. The artifact resides in the personal chambers of the headmaster, where a number of twisted creatures have been drawn to it. As the PCs fight the curse and continue their expedition, they'll uncover a wizard's notebook detailing the source of the delusions-as well as a possible solution that he wasn't able to try before he was lost to the madness himself.*In the finale, the PCs will confront the sentient artifact and its new minions, and must overcome their own distrust of each other in order to defeat the artifact before they find themselves consumed by it.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, madness, magic, monster, villain==Madness by Design*With the exception of two nobles, the king's entire court has gone mad. The palace has been quarantined, although the king is unaffected. No one knows what caused the spontaneous madness, or whether it will spread further-except the king, because he's responsible for the "disease." He arranged for a magical malady to afflict the nobles because he wants no interference when he makes several decrees that many in the city, including the PCs, would oppose.*Two nobles proved resistant, but are quarantined, as it's assumed they'll succumb eventually. One of them suspects foul play and reaches out to the PCs. The opening scene for this adventure is a surreptitious rendezvous between the noble and the PCs. They must meet without arousing suspicions, and without anyone knowing of their meeting, or they will be quarantined as well. In their meeting, the noble suggests a magical cause and notes the disappearance of the royal wizard, who is said to be "away on court business."*Investigating the wizard's disappearance comprises the second major scene. During this scene, the noble that the PCs didn't meet with goes mad as well, and the noble they met disappears-thrown into the dungeon on false charges, as he appears to be resisting the madness and poses a threat. The PCs' investigation turns up the court wizard's body. He appears to have been murdered by street thugs during a robbery, but the key to his palace quarters is still on his belt.*While they're breaking into the palace, the first of the king's unwelcome decrees is announced. Time these announcements as best fits the pacing of the adventure, releasing more of them to give the PCs an incentive to press ahead with their well-intentioned crime. Inside the wizard's quarters, they find proof that he created the madness at the behest of the king.*The climax of this adventure is presenting that proof in a situation where the king cannot simply dispose of the PCs-whether that's a showdown in his court, with witnesses assembled by the PCs, a private confrontation with the king (perhaps accompanied with the threat of force), or taking the proof to the streets and inciting the people. The end result may well be the deposing of the king, which could have far-reaching implications in your campaign.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) betrayal, city, deadline, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, investigative, madness, politics, shady, stealth, villain==Mirror Universe*The PCs are hired to retrieve a magic mirror from a dungeon. Their patron has a map of the location in question, complete with notes on dangers, but he admits that it's several years old and the information "may be out of date." As the PCs approach the area, they learn from the local populace that monsters have been leaving the dungeon and destroying or attacking anything and anyone they come across. They claim to have burned those corpses that didn't simply melt away on their own. They're concerned because as the monsters become more aggressive, animals have started acting skittish, plants have begun to grow strangely, and many people are having nightmares with alarming frequency.*As the PCs make the final approach to the dungeon, they're attacked by a native herd animal. It seems to be in great pain, and its neck is twisted so that its face stares skyward. Its fur covers tentacle-like protrusions that grasp weakly at anything that touches its body. If the PCs kill it, it collapses, its skin tears open, and several mutated organs clumsily flee its worm-riddled corpse on insectile legs. Similarly twisted creatures are found inside the dungeon.*The map is roughly accurate, but as the PCs near their goal the walls will become progressively more spongy and moist until chambers seem completely organic, pulsing with life, and cease to bear any resemblance to the map. In these final chambers, the PCs will have to contend with trap-filled rooms featuring acid-filled pits and tentacles arcing with electricity.*The mirror is found in a chamber that appears to have been gripped by a great hand and pulled like taffy. Made of a green-flecked golden metal and reflecting a misty vortex in which forms drift at the edge of sight, it hangs half-embedded in the wall, as though the wall were growing around it. Its surface feels almost like a liquid. If a PC pushes his hand through, he risks attack by something on the other side. As the PCs try to take it, they're attacked by a mass of squirming tentacles and claws from within the mirror. The PCs can either defeat this monstrosity or try to free the mirror and escape.*If asked, the PCs' patron will indicate that he intends to find a way to destroy the mirror. A good hook for future adventures is to have him be lying about this, or simply fail to destroy it, which will result in the surrounding region being slowly warped by the mirror.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) dungeon crawl, magic, tactical planning, travel, twist*Fatal Imprudence==The Importance of Proper Wording*The PCs hear a proclamation that all valiant souls should aid the church in the recovery of a stolen object, and when they inquire about the details of this holy quest they're led to the priest who issued the proclamation. He begs them to be discrete about the true nature of the quest, and explains that a scroll of prophecy has been stolen; it foretells of a great doom that would be caused by a yellow-haired child. The church wants the prophecy returned, but its wording is so vague that church officials fear what might happen if it becomes popular knowledge: riots, people murdering yellow-haired children, and blood running in the streets.*The priest can share two pieces of information to help the PCs start their hunt: Four men were seen near the temple before the theft, and only a handful of fences would be able to move a stolen holy relic. He asks the PCs not to reveal anything about the prophecy during their search.*Three of the four thieves have been spending their time in a local bar, arguing about what to do with the prophecy. They speak in code, so the PCs might encounter them and feel something is suspicious but not put things together. One of the thieves has a yellow-haired son and wants to destroy the prophecy. Two of them want to ransom it back to the church, while the fourth thief, the leader, is pondering the problem on his own but keeps tabs on the other three.*Visiting a fence who deals in relics, the PCs learn that a shipment was expected and that it hasn't been received. If they play their cards right, the fence will offer to hire them to retrieve the relic. The fence can also tell them more about the thieves, as can other local crooks and ne'er-do-wells.*If the PCs confront the thieves, they will flee. If cornered, a few will fight but the thief with the yellow-haired son will surrender. He'll reveal that he wants the prophecy destroyed to protect his son. Before he can disclose the location of the prophecy, the leader will kill him with a crossbow shot and escape into the area's maze of alleyways.*A map to the thieves' hideout can be found on one of them, leading the PCs to the leader. When the PCs show up, he'll be scooping up the band's loot and getting ready to leave town. The leader can be intimidated or bribed into giving them the prophecy. He'll fight if pressed, but prefers to avoid combat. The PCs should be aware that he still has knowledge of the prophecy and could retell it, and that he's not to be trusted-making him a potential liability.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) city, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, race, religion, social, villain==Too Late!*The PCs are approached by a messenger from a nearby town who asks for their help. A band of goblins (or other small humanoids) has been raiding the town regularly and terrorizing its citizens. En route to the town, the PCs face a challenge that significantly delays their arrival: a flooded river or other natural hazard, an ambush set by goblin skirmishers, or a fight with other hostile creatures.*When the PCs arrive in town, they find the townsfolk distraught, and not just because of the goblin raids. Because of their delay in reaching the town, a local would-be hero decided that the goblin problem couldn't wait any longer, and he set out to take them on himself. The residents beg the PCs to deal with the goblins and rescue their foolhardy friend.*Arriving at the goblin lair, the PCs must get past entrance guards in fortified sniper positions. If not defeated quickly, the guards will sound an alarm, alerting all the goblins in the lair and bringing reinforcements.*Within the lair, the PCs will have to fight additional goblins (especially if the alert was raised) as they search for the would-be hero. Depending on the tone you settle on for this adventure, he could be dead, captured, or alive; if alive, he'll insist on fighting alongside the PCs. With or without the would-be hero, the PCs must ultimately face the goblin warlord. If allowed time to prepare, the warlord and his cronies will barricade themselves in a defensible position with a stockpile of oil that can be turned into bombs and used in traps.*If the PCs return with the would-be hero alive and well, the town will hold a feast in their honor and expect to hear tales of their heroics. If he's dead, the PCs will be asked to attend his funeral and say a few words at the grave site. If the PCs are familiar with the town, this adventure will have more impact-doubly so if the would-be hero is a friend of theirs.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, escort mission, relationship hook, social, travel==One-Way Trip*A few months ago, a party of evil adventurers discovered a long-forgotten tomb complex-one that history books described as being packed from floor to ceiling with priceless treasures. They entered, but never returned. Several other adventuring parties followed them in, never to be seen again. The last to dare the tomb was the dilettante son of a noble family, not a true adventurer. He too failed to return, and his family is offering a substantial reward for his rescue-or the recovery of his body.*Despite the ancient tomb's fearsome reputation, when the evil adventurers discovered it they found it to be free of threats-so they hatched a plan. They snuck back out, spread the word about the tomb's treasures, and laid in wait for others to follow them. One by one, they killed every adventurer who entered the tomb, including the dilettante, claiming their victims' magic weapons and other treasure for their own. However, a tribe of goblins stumbled across the place and decided to take up residence. They reactivated many of the tomb's deadliest traps and boxed in the evil adventurers. The two groups are locked in a stalemate: The goblins control the entrance area, including a series of deadly traps, and the adventurers are trapped in the deepest part of the tomb.*The PCs will first encounter the goblins, who have relaxed their guard somewhat. They can be bargained with: They want the evil adventurers dead so that they can claim the tomb for themselves, and if they don't have to starve them out, so much the better. They can also be slain, though this will require running their gauntlet of fiendish traps.*The second encounter in this adventure involves traversing the "no man's land" between the goblins and the adventurers. The PCs will discover many bodies of fallen adventurers, as well as the dilettante's corpse. A few traps must be bypassed, as well as undead adventurers who have risen due to the magic of the tomb.*With the goblins dispatched or turned into allies, the PCs must face the evil adventurers. In their desperation to escape the tomb, they delved even deeper, awakening an ancient monster that had been held in place by a powerful enchantment. The adventurers will try to bargain with the PCs to be allowed to escape, though few good-aligned groups will do so once they know why the villains are so eager to flee. If pressed, they will fight-and they're well-armed with the spoils of their looting. For a bigger finale, have the monster break free during the climactic scene.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, exploration, sandbox, social, villain==Angry Waters*In the middle of a terrible storm, the heroes come upon a  large town and take shelter in the local tavern. The tavern is mostly empty and the barkeep is thankful for the company, but warns the PCs that he can't cook anything for them that requires water. The town's well has become poisonous, making everyone in the area sick and killing several townsfolk.*Three days ago, a foul rain fell from the skies, burning any exposed flesh that it touched and killing the local crops and livestock. When the poisonous rain passed, a heavy deluge of normal rainfall began; it hasn't let up since. The dam upstream of the town is near capacity and there are fears that it will break sometime in the next few days, wiping the town off the map. People would leave, but they're too sick or too afraid to abandon their homes. It should be clear to the PCs that this isn't a natural occurrence. In order to help the town, they'll have to discover what really happened.*The innkeeper gives them their first clue: Seven days ago a traveler came into town, ate at the inn and then left later that night, never to be seen again-and he was a cleric of the god of water. In a fit of drunken rage, the captain of the guard killed him and hid his crime by burning the body-an affront to the stranger's deity. Now the god of water is punishing the town, and if amends aren't made the deity will destroy the whole town in a great flood.*The PCs will discover the cleric's possessions in the inn, including some divine scrolls that the innkeeper couldn't decipher. Exploring the town, they find signs of violence in the shrine to the water god, including a town guard emblem near the site. Outside of town, they find the cleric's charred remains hidden in a hunting cabin. During their explorations, the PCs will be harassed by the town guard; in a separate encounter, they'll be attacked by thugs hired by the captain of the guard.*The heroes will then need to bring the guard captain to justice and give the cleric a proper burial according to the precepts of his faith. If they do this, the well will return to normal, the rain will let up, and the waters behind the dam will magically recede to their normal levels, making the town safe again.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) deadline, innocent, investigative, religion*Involuntary Crimes of Love==First Date*In a busy port city, an ancient wereshark and her adolescent son are posing as a young noblewoman and her younger brother, and they've embarked on a bloody campaign to consolidate her political power in the city. Her plan is to bewitch her innocent son so that he attacks the children of prominent families, and she hopes that these attacks will awaken his innate rage and toughen him up as a man. He knows he's a wereshark, but he rarely acts on his animal instincts.*The PCs are helping the city watch investigate series of mutilations. The crimes all took place in small studios rented by women whose descriptions match the appearance of the victims. Each is well-stocked with expensive wine and art, and each studio is also thoroughly destroyed and drenched in blood. The victims' clothes are in surprisingly good condition, indicating that their bodies were dressed after their deaths. At each victim's house, the PCs will find love letters, art, and an invitation to model from a secret admirer.*During their investigation, the PCs discover that a young woman in the area who fits the profile has just left for a rendezvous. Bursting in on the scene, the PCs find a naked young woman desperately trying to fend off a wereshark in hybrid (bipedal) form. Once the PCs have wounded the wereshark, he reverts to human form and collapses. The party escorts him to prison.*Under questioning, the wereshark is shocked to hear what he has done. He admits to suffering blackouts during recent trysts with a handful of women, but insists that the women solicited him and claims to have letters at home to prove it. The woman says that she arrived at the studio to model and found a note that apologized for her host's tardiness and requested that she be ready to model upon his arrival. When he showed up, he made unwelcome physical advances, and when she rejected him he become angry and transformed into a hideous monster. Both the wereshark and the woman mention that a local courier service delivered the letters that brought them together.*The courier service is staffed by the mother's minions, and when the PCs show up they lure them into a water-filled basement where her fish-man servants are lying in wait. Ransacking the courier office yields papers referring to the son as "the mistress' brat," as well as the mother's address. At the weresharks' home, more fish-men keep the PCs busy while the mother bars the door, sets fire to the building, and flees.*Exiting the inferno, the PCs follow alarms and watchmen to the city's prison, where the mother is trying to free her son. They flee towards the sea, relying on their natural regeneration to ignore wounds and slowing pursuit with the mother's dark magic. If they aren't brought down before they reach the water, they will likely escape.*The mother can be used as a powerful nemesis in further adventures, while the son will either follow in his mother's evil footsteps or become an ally if the PCs treated him well.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) city, combat-heavy, innocent, investigative, madness, monster, race, villain==Stolen Treasure*The PCs come across a group of bandits pulling a wheeled cage with a woman inside. The woman is well-dressed and attractive, and she implores the PCs to intervene and set her free. If they do (running off the bandits with relative ease), she thanks them and explains that she comes from a town about two weeks away on horseback, and that the people there would gladly reward the PCs for her return. As the PCs trek to her town, she takes a liking to one of them and tries to initiate a relationship with that PC. This is the crux of the adventure: The plot won't play out well unless one of the PCs falls for her. She reveals little about herself, saying only that she's just a simple servant. She insists that she must return in order to fulfill a debt honorably, and will become sad and withdrawn as the party gets closer to her town.*When the PCs enter the town, the locals are elated at the woman's return. They send a runner to the mountain "to inform the dragon of his treasure's safe return," which comes as a surprise to the PCs. The woman then confesses that her town betrothed her to the dragon in return for the dragon's protection. She has been with the dragon for five years, and her agreement requires her to stay for another 10 years. She was kidnapped by bandits several weeks ago, and in her absence the town was preparing to betroth another villager to the dragon. With the woman's return, she can now return to the dragon's keep.*This should cause great pain for the PC that has fallen for her. The PCs will have to decide what they want to do about this situation, and consider the possible consequences. The dragon will insist on her return, and if he is denied he'll demand another woman as his treasure. The townsfolk, while not fond of ceding anyone to the dragon, receive protection from the dragon and aren't ready to jeopardize the arrangement. The PCs must resolve this sticky situation.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, monster, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, twist==Preventing a Duel*Two young lads of noble birth are trying desperately to back out of a publicly declared duel, but the townsfolk are too excited about the prospect of a fight to let them withdraw. The PCs will find that people are eager to gossip about the origins of the dispute, but that no two stories are alike. The proprietor of a local news publication is anxious to uncover the truth, driven to do so either by a dedication to honest reporting, the desire further a career, the ability use the information as blackmail, or a combination thereof. To that end, the proprietor is covertly hiring people to investigate the situation.*In reality, the dispute is the result of a misunderstanding. In the dead of night, one of the young noblemen spied a masked figure sneaking away from the family's estate. Suspecting a thief, the brave young man embarked on a chase that took them both all the way into town. After a scuffle, the masked figure was revealed to be a young man from a rival house. By this time a crowd had gathered, drawn by the commotion. Affronted, the pursuer slapped the face of perpetrator and challenged him to a duel. With the townsfolk as witnesses, he was obligated to accept.*Both men now regret that encounter, as the perpetrator was sneaking into the pursuer's house not as a thief, but to visit his love-the pursuer's sister. The two nobles are now trying to cover up the details in order to preserve the sister's honor.*Despite attempts at sweeping this mess under the rug, many people know some part of the story. A gardener has witnessed the masked figure several times. At a coffee house, a dilettante reveals that the sister has been swooning over some secret man, while a horse groomer knows that masked passengers pay double coach prices for covertness and that they always travel between the same two city parks. Tailing the lovers leads the PCs to witness an encounter between them. The lovers flee when city guards show up and try to apprehend them-along with the PCs. Regardless of whether the PCs successfully fight off the guards or are captured and put in jail, one of the lovers finds the PCs and pleads for their help.*This is the crux of the adventure, and from this point events can go in two directions. If the PCs decide to help the young nobles, they must find a way to preserve their honor and the secrecy of the first noble's love. If the PCs opt to out the nobles and reveal their dishonor, agents of the two noble houses will work to sabotage their efforts. Bribery, threats, fast-paced chases, and attacks are some of the methods that might be employed to hinder the PCs. Resolution should occur after a major confrontation, or when the PCs reveal the true story behind the duel.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) city, difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, politics, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, twist==Rain, Rain, Go Away*A rainstorm has raged over a small region for several days, and the ceaseless rain is killing crops, flooding homes, and destroying livelihoods. The villagers turn to the PCs for help, and local lore points to an ancient storm giant who is rumored to live atop a nearby mountain. En route to the mountain, the PCs are challenged by the relentless storm, which makes navigation difficult and actual travel doubly so. The storm intensifies the closer they get to the mountain.*Ascending the mountain, the PCs are attacked by orcs. The orcs are outmatched, and seem more intent on keeping the party from getting closer to the top than actually trying to kill them. This is true: They heard that the giant is vulnerable, and hope to kill him and claim his lair. At the top, the PCs find the storm giant, who is indeed the source of the never-ending rain. His mate left him after they had a terrible fight, and in his grief he's lashing out at the surrounding region.*The PCs can simply kill the giant, which will end the storm and allow village life to go back to normal. If they do, the mountain orcs claim his lair and use it as a base from which to launch attacks on the villages. No longer be held in check by the storm giant, they'll devastate the region in short order.*A more interesting option is to go after the giant's mate and try to convince her to return. Though she did leave in part because of their fight, she was also under the thrall of the orc tribe's shaman, who ensorcelled her with the hope of achieving exactly these results. The spell will wear off around the time the PCs track her down (which isn't difficult, given her size and temperament), and if suitably convinced she'll return to her mate.*Back at the lair, the PCs arrive in time to spot the orcs mounting their attack (or midway through the attack, if that works better for your group). Orc sappers have undermined a portion of the mountain near the lair, evening the odds somewhat, but after a furious battle the PCs and the giants will prevail. The reunited storm giants can even be convinced to pay tribute to the village for the damage they caused.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) alliance, deadline, escort mission, innocent, mass combat, race, social, twist, villain*Slaying of a Kinsman Unrecognized==Dark Changeling*While ridding an area of an evil witch, the PCs discover a number of paintings of a handsome boy growing into a man, all entitled "My Royal Son." The witch's journal reveals that she kidnapped the king's firstborn son decades ago, substituting a changeling: a doll enchanted to seem like an infant, or a sickly baby. She then raised him as her own, using her dark magic to fill him with hatred for the king. It's common knowledge that the king's firstborn son died a few months after being born. Although he does have other children, he was diminished by the death.*The final entry in the journal reveals that the witch knows her end is near. Her beloved son, she writes, will carry on her legacy by killing his siblings and ascending to throne, where he will have ultimate authority to continue the witch's dark work.*The party must get to the capital city at once and prevent the royal son from carrying out his mission by any means necessary. He's very resourceful, may have the ability to change his appearance, and is unaffected by the magic wards that bar those without royal blood from entering the palace.*The PCs may find themselves sneaking into the palace, fighting the royal guards, trying to convince the guards of the plot, or even demanding a midnight audience with the king himself. This shouldn't be an easy task. If the royal son is caught, the witch's enchantments can be removed, but this is a long and difficult process that will leave many scars on his soul.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) deadline, epic impact, magic, politics, social, villain==Buyer's Remorse*In order to keep the region from plunging into war, the duke has hired a group of mercenaries to assassinate a rival duke. The duke believes that the assassination will trigger a civil war in the rival duchy, perhaps resulting in a more agreeable ruler winding up on the throne. Unfortunately, unbeknownst to either of them, the rival duke is actually the employer's son. The duchess knows the truth, and she has hired the PCs to stop the assassins as well as carry a message from her to her son. However, unaware of his heritage the rival duke has also hatched a plot of his own. He has dispatched mercenaries to assassinate the other duke's wife-his own mother, the duchess-in the hope that her death will drive his rival mad with grief.*To reach the duke's son, the PCs must pass through dangerous territory. Deception and diplomacy may help, but with the two duchies at war they're likely to be viewed as foes by most of the rival duke's soldiers. The first encounter in this adventure should be a tense confrontation between the PCs and some of the son's forces, which may end in a fight. The PCs must then catch up to the duke's mercenaries, who don't want to be found, and stop them from completing their mission.*With the assassins out of the way, the PCs have to infiltrate the son's camp and get close enough to him to pass on the duchess' message. The message lays out the truth of the rival duke's parentage, but he won't readily believe it-or the PCs. The people he considered his parents are long dead, although you might provide a midwife or other intermediary from the time of his birth to add credence to the claim.*Once convinced of the truth of the message, the rival duke will share his plot with the PCs. While he can't leave the front, he begs them to stop the mercenaries he sent into his father's duchy, who must be just a day or two away from killing his mother. Can the PCs catch the mercenaries in time?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) epic impact, intrigue, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, travel==Loyalty*A stealthy, masked figure trails the PCs for a time, then  attacks without warning. If the man is wounded, he attempts to flee. If he gets away, he begins stalking the PCs again as soon as he's healed up. When the PCs finally unmask their stalker, they're shocked to discover that he's a close relative of a party member. If their attacker survives, which is the recommended outcome, he remains single-minded in his determination to slay his kinsman-struggling against any bonds, spitting expletives, and escaping at the earliest opportunity.*Searching the relative reveals that he is tattooed with the symbol of a clan of notoriously persistent assassins. If other members of the clan observed the relative's capture, they may attack the PCs to protect him.*After talking to family members, the PCs discover that their would-be assassin claimed to have been wronged by his PC kinsman months ago. He has since been consumed by the desire for revenge. He disappeared shortly after making dark declarations against the PC. In truth, he was brainwashed by the assassin clan-his kinsman never wronged him.*In time, or through magical assistance, the PCs can return the brainwashed relative to a normal state. He joined the clan voluntarily, and over time they conditioned him to hate the PC; ultimately, they ordered him to kill his kinsman as a test of his loyalty. The fact that the relative is free of their control, however, doesn't mean that the assassins will let one of their number escape so easily. The PCs may have to destroy the entire organization in order to prevent the assassins from making regular attempts on their lives.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) betrayal, combat-heavy, difficult choice, investigative, madness, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy==A Second Chance*This adventure begins in a cemetery on a stormy day, where the lord (or lady) of the land stands before a grave site and makes a vow. The PCs are the noble's retainers, and the noble is repentant: It was by his hand that the person interred here was a slain. Worse still, he later learned that the person was a blood relative. The noble swears to the gods that if given a second chance, the killing blow would not come from his hand. Thereupon the heavens open up, releasing a downpour of ferocious magnitude, and there is a brilliant and searing bolt of lightning.*In the next moment, the PCs and their liege appear in a courtyard. The once-slain kinsman stands before them, making unreasonable demands of the noble. It's clear the PCs' liege lord doesn't recognize his kinsman as such, and sees him only as a rival noble clamoring for war. Nevertheless, the PCs remember the grave site and this person's ultimate destiny.*As the adventure unfolds, the PCs experience a situation that has transpired before. Their liege orders them to infiltrate the kinsman's fortress, elude the guards and the bloodthirsty twin mastiffs that roam the estate, reach his private quarters, capture him, and return so that their liege lord may exact justice on the man.*Knowing that how these events transpire represents a second chance for their liege, the PCs must work at some kind of reconciliation-even though their liege might interpret anything other than outright obedience as betrayal. Their liege isn't easily convinced of his blood ties to the rival, so the PCs should work to locate proof that they are kinsmen and find a way to present that information before events spiral out of control.*This could involve another raid on the kinsman's fortress to retrieve long-lost birth records, which were inscribed in a holy book now entombed in the patriarch's crypt; the crypt is protected by the ghostly souls of their ancestors. They might instead seek out a priest who knows how the bloodlines connect, but who resides in a wilderness retreat that can only be reached after an arduous and dangerous trek. The PCs could also consult a mountaintop oracle; he will direct the PCs to recover an heirloom inscribed with the lost family history.*Only once the noble decides not to kill his kinsman will the timeline correct itself, returning the PCs and their liege to a slightly changed world.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) alliance, difficult choice, escort mission, intrigue, magic, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, twist==Thief of Destiny*When one of the PCs was born, the local midwife prophesied great deeds. Before the PC turned one year old, a visiting wizard overheard the tale and decided to steal the blessings of the prophecy for his own. The wizard crept into the sleeping child's room and took a lock of his hair to use to create a duplicate.*Years later, the PCs cross paths with a powerful wizard in red and silver robes and a knight in enchanted plate armor. The knight acts as the wizard's bodyguard, and his (or her, if the prophesied PC was female) visor is down. Having been ordered by the wizard to stay silent, he doesn't speak during the encounter. The wizard offers to auger the future for the PCs, and proves his abilities by divining a minor detail about each of them. His offer of augury is made to all of the PCs, but perceptive characters will notice that he pays particular attention to the duplicated PC.*For a small fee, he promises to tell each PC something useful about their future. (Rolling a die before telling each fortune may help create the illusion that the wizard is actually performing magic.) Assuming the duplicated PC accepts, when the wizard divines that PC's future he proclaims that the PC will die in his or her next battle. He offers to ward off that fate by siphoning that possible future into a brass amulet that he carries for just such a purpose. If the PC accepts, the wizard will perform a warding ritual-and this time, actual magic is involved: The PC's destiny is transferred into the amulet.*After parting ways with the PCs, the wizard and the duplicate (who is now wearing the amulet, which channels the PC's destiny into him or her) commit a daring theft. When the PCs pass through the same area, town guards attempt to arrest them for the crime. This pattern will recur as often as needed for pacing until the PCs track down the wizard and the fated PC's duplicate. Each encounter can involve mystery, intrigue, diplomacy, or combat as you see fit.*When the party confronts the wizard, he won't give up the amulet without a struggle. If the duplicate dies while wearing it, the duplicated PC's destiny dies at the same time, making a confrontation tricky. What will the duplicated PC do about his or her clone? Can the party afford to leave the wizard and the duplicate alive?*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, tactical planning, twist, villain*Self-Sacrifice for an Ideal==Speaking Truth to Power*The local lord's reputation for harsh taxation and political oppression is rivaled only by his reputation as a diehard supporter of both king and country. His zealous support is the only reason that he is tolerated by the king, but things have changed over the past year.*Taxes have increased while roads, bridges, and garrisons are in worse repair than ever. Finally, in the middle of a busy market day, a local farrier climbs atop his stall and loudly protests the latest tax increase. A crowd gathers, egging him on, but the lord's men break it up.*That night, the PCs hear about or witness the farrier being beaten to death by the lord's men. His last words are, "What's in the horses' hooves? And what's in the stables? Only a traitor's got business there!" If his body or the crime scene is investigated, the party will find a number of small pieces of dark flint, some of them bloody, wrapped in a cloth. The flint comes from an area of nearby high hills that stand on the border of a hostile neighboring country.*In the lord's stables are a few horses with bandaged hooves. There's also a newly built section of the stable with locked doors. Peeking through gaps in the boards reveals a number of new wagons built to carry heavy loads across rough terrain. Bypassing the locked doors reveals two wagons full of road-building supplies and plans for a road from the neighboring country through the flinty hills to this area.*The local lord is committing treason by building a road for an invading army; in return, he will receive a post in the invader's government. The PCs need to get this information to the king or his agents before being caught.*While the PCs are in the stables, a group of foreign soldiers disguised as workers stumble in, laughing and talking with strong foreign accents. If the PCs are caught, the soldiers will draw weapons and attack while one runs to sound the alarm. The PCs must then escape the town while it's in "lockdown" mode. Even if they defeat the soldiers, they must still get word, and preferably evidence, to the king while evading the traitorous lord and his men.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, investigative, politics, rebellion, social, trade, travel, villain==Tower of the Necromancers*From within the infamous Tower of the Necromancers, wizards discharge the magical waste from their vile experiments into a river that serves as a nearby village's water supply. In addition to the effects of pollution (diseases, curses, deformities, and afflictions), necroplasmic goo from the river animates roaming undead like wights, skeletons, and other horrors.*The town's elders have lodged complaints with their lord, but he relies on the tower to reinforce his army with magical support, and resists taking action against the wizards. The PCs can become aware of the town's situation after putting down a roving band of undead horrors that is terrorizing the region, or when a loved one (or one of the PCs) is affected by the tainted water.*When word comes that the lord's own liege plans a visit on another matter, the more outspoken activists in town hatch a plan and present it to the PCs. If the PCs stage a raid on the necromancers' tower during the royal visit and gather proof that the wizards are deliberately causing harm, then the lord will have no choice but to intervene and order the wizards to find another outlet for their arcane runoff. Of course,  there is one little problem: The wizards have anticipated this maneuver. They've hired assassins to eliminate the PCs and have secured any incriminating evidence deep within their tower.*Possible encounters include fighting off a group of undead horrors, battling assassins in the town's narrow streets, or coordinating a first strike and attacking the assassins on the tower grounds. The PCs will also need to neutralize a magical barrier that separates the necromantic workshop from the rest of the tower, overcome the cadre of apprentice necromancers and their magically summoned monsters, and then destroy the workshop itself. Ultimately, they must confront the lord with embarrassing evidence during an audience with the visiting royal.*The PCs face overwhelming odds, and they may need to sacrifice much to bring about this confrontation. What are they willing to give up in order to save the town and its inhabitants?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) epic challenge, investigative, magic, monster, relationship hook, social, tactical planning==Sagacious Writ*A young adventurer was granted a small and troubled province to rule, and although he did his best the land fared poorly. His people starved, revolted against him, or both. He wrote letters asking for guidance from other leaders with prosperous lands. While this helped, his people were still restless. When one of his mentors passed away, she willed him a magic parchment that detailed the wisest laws he could enact.*For years, he copied and enacted these suggestions and his lands prospered. Studying the scroll's laws, he has written a book on governance for his descendants. He now wishes to pass the scroll on to another benevolent but hopeless bureaucrat. He has advised a likely candidate for years and has asked the PCs to visit his protégé to make sure he deserves the scroll.*The protégé is paranoid from years of his subjects making threats against him, so even with an introduction from his mentor he's distrustful of the PCs and requires them to prove their intentions. He'll send them to deal with a gang of bandits who have taken possession of a bridge to an isolated part of his kingdom. They've fortified the bridge with cover positions for snipers and are demanding tolls from passersby. Their main camp is just a short distance away, so if they're attacked they can easily summon reinforcements.*The protégé will next send the PCs to mediate a tax dispute. A village is refusing to pay the tax due on their barley, claiming that they harvested only enough to eat and replant. Investigating, talking to villagers, and visiting other towns, the PCs discover that the village's terrain isn't suited to the crop they were assigned. The protégé will drop the tax, ask the PCs how he is to avoid making similar mistakes in the future, and enact any reasonable suggestions.*Now comfortable with the PCs, the protégé will invite them to dinner, during which he'll be happy to discuss whatever they like. Using their abilities or through roleplaying, the PCs must satisfy themselves that the protégé is worthy of the scroll. During dinner, he will offer knighthood to any of the PCs who are not already in the employ of another lord.*As written, this adventure deals with evaluating a single protégé, but it could easily be adapted into a story arc or campaign by giving the PCs multiple candidates to choose between.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) intrigue, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social==The Last Stand*While the PCs are staying with a local lord, a group of demons is unleashed against his castle-and the only priest strong enough to dismiss them is half a night's ride away. The lord manages to send a messenger to the priest, but the PCs and the lord's guards need to hold off the demons until he arrives. Everyone else is sent into the dungeons, where a secret passage leads to safety.*The PCs and a handful of defenders must hold off the demons in order to allow people to escape. The PCs should understand that the odds of defeating the enemy are remote; the best they can hope for is to hold the demons off long enough for the priest to arrive or for the people to get to safety. This plot also works well if the PCs have loved ones among the fleeing people: The PCs are, in effect, sacrificing themselves for the ones they love.*Part of the fun of this scenario is the planning. You should have a detailed map of the castle and surrounding environs so that the PCs can accurately plan their defenses. When the demons attack, they should hit hard. The PCs will need to hold them off as long as possible before falling back. Hopefully, they can keep the demons at bay until the priest arrives.*The first major encounter is all planning: How will the PCs defend the castle? The second encounter is the demons' first wave; these could be scouts, skirmishers, and outriders or a sizeable portion of the main force, depending on what suits your campaign. The third encounter is the main assault: Demons are everywhere, trying multiple approaches to break into the castle and overwhelm the defenders. If the PCs repulse the main assault, the demons can regroup for another attack before the priest arrives. Getting the priest into range to banish the demons is the final, climactic encounter.*You can also run this adventure as a purely military scenario (swapping the demons for conventional forces) or with the foe being a single terrifying monster or a small band of monsters, which is a good option if you don't want to run large numbers of combatants. For an interesting twist, have the escapees cloaked by magic-a magic that could be overcome if the monster can bring all its senses to bear against the fleeing people.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) alliance, combat-heavy, epic challenge, isolated area, mass combat, monster, siege, tactical planning==Blood-Bound*Centuries ago, an ancestor of the current king was instrumental in defeating a terrible demon, and it has become the sacred responsibility of his line to keep the demon from threatening the kingdom again. Though the demon can never truly be killed, its soul has been kept beneath the palace, bound in magical chains, ever since its body was destroyed.*The king summons the PCs and delivers terrible news: A theft has occurred that threatens the safety of the entire kingdom. The Blade of Stars, the sword that slew the demon's body centuries ago, is missing. If it isn't returned to the binding circle that holds the demon's soul prisoner, the chains will become weaker every day until the demon can break free.*The PCs must track down the thieves and recover the blade. The king will allow them to commandeer a measure of the crown's resources in pursuit of their quest. The thieves fled by ship and sailed for the northlands. The fleeing ship has quite a lead, and tracking it over the open sea will require ingenuity.*When the PCs catch up to the thieves, their leader-a sorcerer who stole the Blade of Stars to enhance her own magic-whips the waves around the king's warship into a frenzy, allowing her ship to escape. When the PCs pursue her on land, she calls a blizzard down upon them, again driving them back.*After battling the sorcerer and her band, the PCs recover the blade. When they return the blade to its place in the binding circle, the chains strengthen-but not enough. The king's wizards are at a loss. Returning to the king's audience chamber to claim their reward, the PCs are instead greeted by the high priest. He tells them that the king's god appeared in the ruler's dreams, and has demanded a sacrifice of royal blood in order to permanently bind the demon's soul. The king has refused, and is in seclusion. The high priest asks the PCs to convince the king to make this sacrifice for his people.*The deity may be satisfied with royal blood from further down the line, but only a member of the king's direct line (the king or one of his children) is guaranteed to be considered an acceptable sacrifice. There's no easy solution: Sacrificing the king's children will earn the PCs his undying enmity, and convincing him to sacrifice himself will weaken the kingdom - but someone must die to save the realm.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) deadline, difficult choice, politics, race, social, travel, villain*Self-Sacrifice for Kindred==A Concubine's Dilemma*A local ruler desires a particular woman and wishes to make her his concubine, so he throws her husband into prison and forces the woman to join him in order to keep her husband alive and well. The concubine wishes for them both to be free, but she has a dilemma: If her husband is freed first then she will likely be killed, but if she's freed first then he will likely be executed.*Unbeknownst to the concubine, one of the servants has learned of her dilemma and wants to help. The servant seeks out the PCs and asks for their aid, noting that the concubine has been gifted with expensive jewelry and would gladly part with it in return for their aid. The PCs' problem is making sure that both husband and wife can be freed without harm coming to either of them.*The first part of this adventure is observation and information-gathering. The PCs must reconnoiter the ruler's palace and the prison, likely using deception to gain entry. The ruler is quite fond of his concubine and not only will he not sell her at any price, he'll also become jealous of anyone else who pays her too much attention. Thus, an offer to buy her will be met with suspicion and possibly violence.*Once the PCs have managed to map the appropriate areas of the palace and prison, as well as their environs, then they will have to carry out their plan. This will likely involve stealth as well as combat: sneaking into the palace to spirit the concubine away without alerting the ruler's guards, and then breaking into the prison to free her husband, also without getting caught. Getting both the concubine and her husband out of the palace in one piece, and without being fingered for the crime, composes the finale of this adventure.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, escort mission, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, politics, social, stealth, tactical planning==No Greater Love*A humanoid (orc, hobgoblin, etc.) has taken up residence on the outskirts of a small town, where she and her pre-teen son fit in as best they can and try to help out the locals with their specialized knowledge and unique perspective. They caused quite a stir when they first arrived, but quickly settled into a comfortable routine. Their quiet life is disrupted when the community is stricken by a string of bad luck. People begin to turn the mother into a scapegoat for their woes: Her fences have been torn down, and someone even tried to light her house on fire. Recently, her son was viciously beaten.*Walking into town one day as a thunderstorm is brewing, she recognizes one of the PCs as a friendly face and hands him a sealed letter that says, "Open afterwards." She then says, "Thank you for everything," and strides off.*A few moments later, as the storm starts to rage in earnest, the humanoid stands in the middle of the town square and begins to curse the townspeople. She claims responsibility for all of their bad luck, and even claims to have slept with half the married men in town. An angry crowd gathers as the storm breaks, and they stone her to death. The PCs can intervene, but the woman will be killed before they can protect her.*The letter is brief: "I had no choice. They would have come for both of us. Please go to the copse behind my house where my son is waiting. Take him to this place. Tell him I love him." This is followed by a crude map showing a route leading out of town to a residence in a major city. The son is sitting in the copse by a large sack, eating lunch. When the PCs approach, he says, "Mother said to wait here for someone. Are you them? Where is she?"*On their way out of town, the PCs must guard the son from the townsfolk, who will pursue them and demand his head. Once they're clear of the town, they'll find the city much more accepting of the son and the special talents he possesses. In fact, the city folk are so covetous of the humanoid that some will offer to purchase him for large sums. If the PCs ignore the offers and take him to the destination indicated on the map, they will find a kindly, childless couple who are willing to raise him as their own. If the boy is sold, he will run away to try and live with his own kind and the buyers will demand their money back.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, escort mission, innocent, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, travel==Say It Ain't So, Pa*A mysterious and elusive bandit leader has become a thorn in the local duke's side, raiding tax collectors and wealthy land owners. The duke wants the leader and his brigands captured and order restored before this little irritation sparks a full-blown rebellion.*Talking with tax collectors and nobles reveals little. The tax collectors know they're not popular, but the duke's projects require funding. The noblemen and gentlewomen consider themselves blameless, though even their own servants dislike them-the nobles hold to the oldest privileges and make little effort to be liked.*Capturing and interrogating a bandit reveals a loose network of angry locals, crushed under the heavy burden of the duke's taxes-which have doubled over the last five years. The bandits are not a group that acts as one, though independent bands do communicate with one another. Many of the groups speak of the inspiring words of the man they call "the First Rebel."*After the PCs learn of the First Rebel, the duke tells them that he, too, has had a breakthrough: His men tortured a bandit from another area, and he now knows the First Rebel's identity. He seems to expect the PCs to know the man's identity as well, and he questions them on the topic, paying particular attention to one PC. Then he asks the PCs to aid him in their arrest of the First Rebel, who is actually that PC's father. (You can substitute another relative, instead: A mother or sibling will have the same intensity with a different feel. A more distant relative may be a safer choice, as some players won't like having a parent or sibling involved in this plot.)*The PCs can pose as rebels and gain entry into a local band. There's a meeting between bands scheduled in a few days, and when they attend they recognize the PC's father, and in turn are recognized by him. They may see the justness of the father's cause and decide to join him, or they might decide to stay loyal to the duke and attempt to take the father prisoner.*Whichever route they take, they will come into conflict with the duke again. If they become rebels, this can substantially alter your campaign, taking things in a new direction. If they stay loyal, the duke may demand that they watch the father's execution, or perform penance to make amends for his crimes.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) difficult choice, epic impact, politics, rebellion, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social, twist==None Shall Pass*Deep in the ruins under a large city, a hole leading to some nefarious underworld constantly spawns demonic creatures. Positioned at a choke point between the rift and civilization, an ancient, divine hero holds back the waves of evil. A few elders in the city above know of the hero's existence, and adventurers occasionally bring tales of his fight to protect his descendants to the surface world. Below the hero's position lie even older ruins, overrun with demonic forces and littered with the corpses of would-be heroes. The PCs seek a treasure that lies below the hero's chokepoint, and must venture underground to find it.*Reaching the hero requires navigating the labyrinth above and braving the hazards within. This dungeon is a mix of ancient ruins, natural caves, monster burrows, and sewers all jumbled together. The deepest layers are the natural cave formations where the rift on which the city was inadvertently built is located.*The hero waits within a small natural cavern that forms a choke point between the lower and upper levels of the dungeon. He is beset regularly by the wretched creatures from below. The hand of his god keeps him healed, eliminates the need for sustenance, and slows the advance of years. When not fighting he will be happy to discuss his charge with anyone who asks, and he's grateful for the company, especially if his visitors lend their swords to his cause. He warns against going any deeper into the caverns below: Not only are they crawling with the vilest beasts, but the tricks employed by some of his foes obligate him to slay any who try to pass from below unless they can prove their nature beyond the shadow of a doubt.*Below the hero lies a wealth of ancient treasures for the taking, including the item the PCs need to recover. In these lower halls, evil creatures are everywhere and the PCs run the risk of not only being slain but also of being corrupted and possessed. To successfully recover the item, they must both survive the lower halls and find some way to prove their true nature to the hero so that he will allow them to pass on their return journey.*A grander goal is to try to close the rift itself and thus permanently end the threat. While this may be possible, doing so requires the PCs to divine and execute a solution while defending themselves at the very heart of the dungeon.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) combat-heavy, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, exploration, monster==The Shield of Forever*A patron of treasure hunters summons the PCs to his villa and asks them to undertake a mission to recover a fabled artifact: a shield known to have healing properties. He says he sought the PCs out because he has lost contact with the previous expedition he sent for the treasure-an expedition led by a relative of one of the PCs.*He doesn't know where along the trek the relative disappeared, only the starting point. It will be necessary, he says, to retrace the first expedition's tracks and find the clues needed to reach each successive destination while encountering the same obstacles as the previous expedition.*As the PCs retrace the previous expedition's steps, they find the bodies of its members at every stage of their journey. They also encounter bodies encased in ice and guarded by a magical creature that ensnares unwary prey in an ice prison, a group of evil dwarves mining a cliff face and gleefully burying travelers amid the rocks below, and finally a large, underground chamber inhabited by fanatics. The fanatics once possessed the key granting entry to the vault containing the legendary shield, and they'll attack all treasure-seekers because the relative's party stole the vault key from them.*Eventually, the PCs will catch up to the sole survivors of the expedition: the relative and one other person. The wards surrounding the legendary shield require a living soul in exchange for the power of the aegis, so someone must stay behind while the others escape with the shield.*Who will make that sacrifice? Or will they leave the artifact in place for all eternity, as those who devised the trap intended? And what of their patron: How will he react to news of the lost expedition or the artifact itself?*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) difficult choice, investigative, magic, relationship hook, trade, travel*All Sacrificed for a Passion==My Country, ‘Tis of Thee*A demon in the guise of a man has infiltrated the kingdom,  and through his powers of deception he has wooed the queen and placed her under several magical charms. In so doing, he has slowly taken power for himself. Under the demon's influence, the queen has rebuffed those closest to her and welcomed untrustworthy advisors. These newcomers are robbers clothed in silk who owe allegiance only to the usurper.*Those close advisors to the queen who have attempted to warn her against relinquishing too much authority to this man have been banished or punished. An investigation into the situation reveals that the demon's thugs brazenly invaded an exiled advisor's estate, prompting a hasty rescue of his family; later they learn that a meditation chamber exists deep under the castle, guarded by minor demons and traps and filled with unholy relics. The PCs also turn up clues pointing towards a mirror of revealing, an artifact that displays the true nature of anything or anyone caught in its reflection, and they learn that the queen's handmaiden fled after she spied the demon in his true form. She now hides from a coterie of demon-spawn that was sent to kill her.*This is a sandbox adventure: Once in possession of some or all of the above clues, the PCs can come up with their own way to try and resolve the situation, likely involving several encounters. It will take a daring plan to unmask this scoundrel as the demon he truly is. Whose passion is strongest-the demon's lust for power or the PCs' love of queen and country?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) betrayal, epic impact, intrigue, investigative, magic, monster, politics, sandbox, social, spirit, stealth, villain==The Bishop's Rod*A bishop (or a similar figure, like a master wizard) summons his subordinate, one of the PCs, early in the morning on a feast day. He tells the PC that a great vision was revealed to him last night: the location of a holy rod that is sacred to their church. Great cunning and sturdy hands will be required to recover it, and he tasks the PC with arranging an escort for the journey to the artifact site several hundred miles away. The PC and the escort (which includes the other PCs) will accompany the bishop.*On the journey, the bishop has nightmares each night. If asked, he explains that his nightmares are of heretics claiming the artifact first. This is a lie. In truth, he's filled with guilt and is steeling himself for the terrible thing he feels he must do: sacrifice the priest PC in order to acquire the rod. The bishop knows that the artifact, which is genuine, can only be claimed by one willing to give her life for god, and he's too much of a coward to do so himself.*After morning prayers one day, the bishop warns the PCs that he foresees that they will be attacked at noon. The attack comes on schedule: Heretics who worship a dark cult dedicated to the bishop's god swarm the party, targeting obvious members of the faith before anyone else. During the battle, the enemy leader raves about the "Rod of Mastery" having returned to earth. After the dust settles, it's clear that without the bishop's warning, the party would likely have been defeated.*The next obstacle is to pinpoint the location of the holy rod. The bishop's vision revealed the rod in a cave above the group's destination. While searching the area, they encounter other priests of their faith who also seek the rod. Some are members of dark cults who may attack the party, set ambushes, or hide and follow the PCs.*When the party finds the rod, they see that it's surrounded by a hazy red energy field. Direct approaches have no effect-the field can't be breached. At this point, the bishop will try to incapacitate the party so that he can sacrifice the priest PC. That sacrifice will dispel the field, allowing the bishop to take the rod. If he fails, a fight will break out.*Presuming the PCs defeat the bishop, the rod is-for the moment-unattainable. But dozens of other groups are converging on the party's location, and it's possible the bishop had other allies, allowing this plot to become the springboard for future adventures.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, escort mission, race, religion, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, siege, tactical planning, travel, twist==Forever Yours*The characters discover a magical ring with many defensive and utilitarian properties in a treasure horde. Upon picking it up, the PCs hear occasional sniffles and sighing. The ring is intelligent and can speak, but it's reluctant to communicate unless cajoled. It holds the soul of a young poet who, unable to accompany his love on her adventures, sold everything he owned and paid to have himself imbued within a powerful item-this ring, which was to be delivered to her. Instead, he's spent years in treasure piles or in the possession of a series of increasingly more horrid adventurers. He begs the PCs to help reunite him with his lost love.*Following up on his tale, the PCs will discover that the soul in the ring isn't exactly the man he described himself to be. The crafter of the ring admits that he sold it to an adventurer after he never received payment for its creation. Hunting down the poet's parents reveals that they were outraged to discover that their son financed his cockamamie scheme by selling not only his own possessions and home, but theirs as well. While they stopped the sale of their home in time, many of their possessions were never recovered. Those familiar with the poet's work regard him as a talentless hack, and many who knew him considered him to be a spineless, irritating whiner.*During the PCs' travels, the ring will be stolen by a pixie or other capricious spirit. Though the ring teleports back to its rightful owners, the pixie is determined and harasses the PCs until they convince it to leave them alone.*If the PCs take too long to find the poet's beloved, he will become annoyingly vocal and harass them incessantly. If treated badly, or if he becomes convinced that the PCs are making no attempt to help, he'll do his best to make life as miserable and difficult for them as he can-even going so far as to alert foes to their presence and deliberately attract the attention of thieves.*When the PCs find the poet's lost love, she wants nothing to do with the ring. She launches into a lengthy rant about the poet's ability to annoy her decades after she fled from his constant harassment. After this confrontation, the ring will have a change of heart and will ask the PCs to deliver him to an adventuring bard who could make use of his magic and who might help him improve his poetry.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) bearers, investigative, sandbox, social, spirit, twist==The Price of Love*Everyone knows the story of the warrior-priest whose power protects the city. Since he forswore all earthly pleasures and dedicated himself to his deity, he has been undefeated in single combat and mass warfare. His divinely granted power has kept the city safe for the last 20 years, and has inspired many to dedicate their lives to a greater cause. He is a hero in the truest sense of the word.*But now, all of that has changed. The warrior-priest has taken a consort, a stunningly beautiful and enchanting woman, and the deity has withdrawn his favor. The PCs become privy to this sensitive information, and the local ruler asks their help in keeping it secret. If enemies of the city or of the warrior-priest's deity find out, they will use this vulnerability to their advantage.*Initially, a spy tries to get this information to his boss. The PCs may notice someone leaving in a hurry after learning of the affair, or may be sent to catch him. This happens more than once over the course of the adventure.*The warrior-priest's consort is actually an avatar of the goddess of beauty and vanity, though he doesn't know it. She's merely showing off her power and means no ill will towards the city or the warrior-priest, and she isn't evil. In her  presence, her appeal is undeniable. Outside of her presence, it's impossible to understand why the warrior-priest would give up so much for her.*If confronted, she uses her considerable influence to calm those around her so that she may continue her game in peace. If the danger that she has caused to her new lover can be proven to her, she'll break her spell and leave as gracefully as she can. If physically attacked, she'll retaliate, revealing that she's much more than human. Defeated or revealed, she'll release the warrior-priest from her spell, but whoever attacked her will owe the goddess a debt for their offence.*Free of her spell, the warrior-priest will go on a quest for his redemption. In his absence, the PCs are asked to help keep up appearances, preferably with one of them appearing as the warrior-priest. If word gets out that the warrior-priest is absent, the city will need to be defended from raiders, infiltrators, and possibly even infernal beings.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Romance, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) betrayal, city, combat-heavy, epic challenge, epic impact, intrigue, investigative, magic, mature themes, religion, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy==Divine Retribution*The high priest of a local temple broke his vows and had relations with a pilgrim, who then departed the city. In retribution, the temple's vengeful deity has begun hammering the city with disasters. The high priest has prayed for penance, but his god has informed him that he must bring the pilgrim back to the city and that both of them must beg for penance in order for the disasters to cease.*This adventure begins shortly after the PCs enter the city, when a disaster strikes; this can be a freak weather condition, pestilence, a swarm of vicious animals, or an earthquake-whatever best fits your campaign. During the disaster, the PCs learn that this isn't an unusual occurrence: The city has been suffering strange and deadly occurrences for the past week. The PCs' actions or their reputation bring them to the attention of the high priest, who asks them for an audience.*The high priest explains his transgression and his god's demand. He can't leave the temple, nor would he know where to go if he could. He's uncertain about pilgrim's identity, but knows which group she was traveling with, what she looks like, and that she has a distinctive birthmark on the back of her neck. The PCs will have to hunt this group down, identify the pilgrim, and convince her to return to the city and seek forgiveness. En route, they'll encounter at least one threat: bandits, monsters, severe weather, or some other challenge.*Unfortunately, the pilgrim turns out to be a married noblewoman, and public knowledge of her tryst (about which she has no remorse) will likely plunge the region into war. She also has no intention of returning to the city. The PCs will have to find some way to change her mind, or they may end up dooming the city-and possibly surrounding communities as well, if the god's wrath grows.*If they do convince her to return, then they may abate the divine wrath but now have a temporal concern: The noblewoman's husband demands satisfaction for her crime, and will accept a duel between the PCs and his own champions in lieu of his wife's execution.*Easily adapted to: Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) alliance, deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, escort mission, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, politics, religion, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit, travel*Necessity of Sacrificing Loved Ones==Appeasing the Chimera*A chimera rules over the countryside from its roost high on a bluff overlooking the village. To appease the chimera, the villagers hold a lottery once a year to select three sacrifices. These three people trek up the bluff on the night of the first full moon each summer, and the chimera consumes them.*A few villagers have had enough of this barbaric practice and have sent emissaries to hire a group of mercenaries-the PCs-to put a stop to the chimera once and for all. Not everyone, however, agrees with the decision.*The villagers who orchestrate the lottery rig the drawing in order to settle scores within the community or to protect their loved ones from the chimera's teeth. When they learn why the PCs are in town, they don't stand idly by: They hire sellswords of their own and put the PCs' names into the lottery.*During the course of the adventure, the PCs may encounter a sheriff and several deputized citizens tasked with taking the PCs into custody on trumped-up charges, a dark elf scouting party that emerges from the chimera's lair on the eve of the sacrifice, and an evil wizard who likes things just as they are and tries to prevent any interference. Inside the well-guarded lottery office within the town hall, the PCs can find ledgers, extra chits with certain names on them, a drawer holding chits withheld from the lottery, a magical device that skews the results, and any number of other indicators that the drawing is far from fair.*A little investigation into this arrangement reveals something more sinister than a chimera getting a free meal. The chimera is only the tip of the iceberg-merely a guardian at the mouth of a great underground complex. Deep within the bluff, cultists and dark elves are gathering their strength for a raid to capture villagers and farmers and take them as slaves.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) deadline, innocent, isolated area, monster, sandbox, shady, stealth==My Brother's Keeper*In order to stop an enemy invasion, the king acquiesced to his son's demand that he be allowed to lead an elite unit into battle. The king's army won, but the prince's unit was utterly destroyed and the prince is believed to have been killed. The king was devastated and gave up his throne to his other son, who has turned out to be a tyrannical ruler.*The crown prince didn't die. He was captured and nursed back to health, but was kept as a hostage by the leader of the enemy army. This leader believes that the new king, the crown prince's brother, would prefer that his brother were actually dead, and thus has kept the first-born's fate a secret to be used to his advantage.*The second-born son has learned about his brother's existence and is worried that it may harm his claim to the throne. The king hires the PCs to find and execute his brother, who he claims attempted to betray their father and now lives in the enemy kingdom as a reward for his treachery. The king also claims that his brother is using his knowledge of the kingdom to help the enemy plan a successful second attack on his domain.*The PCs will have to travel through enemy lines and assault the castle where the first-born is being held prisoner. They should encounter an enemy force while crossing their lines and then face a heavily defended castle. Stealth will be their ally for the second encounter, as they sneak into the castle to locate the crown prince. If they don't question their mission once they actually meet him, they'll unwittingly destroy the kingdom's last best hope for a good king. If the PCs learn the truth, then they'll have to help the first-born son escape from prison and return home to stake his claim to the throne.*As an interesting twist, both brothers genuinely like each other and neither is willing to murder the other with his own hands (although they don't have a problem doing it by proxy). This could make the adventure's finale a social encounter that features a debate between the brothers-with the PCs caught in the middle.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, politics, social, stealth, tactical planning, travel, twist==All the King's Men*For several years while the king was off conquering a distant land, the kingdom's prince has ruled in his father's stead. The prince has governed justly and well, unlike his father, feeding the poor from the royal granaries during a famine and imprisoning cruel lords favored by his father when they treated the people poorly. News arrives that the war is won, and the king is due to return home within a few weeks. This sandbox-style scenario is intended for PCs who are well-established in a particular kingdom (ideally, some will be courtly nobles or advisors), and it can significantly alter the future of that domain.*With the king on his way, many advisors attempt to persuade the prince to retain the crown. A few cynically prepare for a return to the old ways, and hide documents that show them in a less flattering light. The prince is reluctant to betray his father's trust and resists calls to fight. Creative advisors, like the PCs, might convince the prince to propose that the king govern the conquered lands while the prince continues to rule their homeland in his name.*Persuading the people to stand by their prince takes effort: While he's widely loved, few want to risk the civil war that will result if the king reclaims his throne and they have defied him. A few nobles loyal to the prince communicate regularly and are ready for action. They will abide by the prince's decision, whatever it may be. Sufficient force can bring the king to the negotiating table: He doesn't want to cripple his army in a civil war.*The king's first action when he comes ashore sets events in motion. Having been kept apprised of some of what has transpired in his absence, he commutes the sentences of the cruelest lords who were imprisoned by his son. Then he summons them to a full council session in order to learn exactly what his son has been up to for the past few years. Though shaken, the prince doesn't want to release the imprisoned lords.*Whichever side and whatever course they take, the PCs will drive this adventure through their actions. The consequences of civil war should be clear, as should the consequences of a return to the king's old ways. Faced with terrible choices, what will the PCs do?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) alliance, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, mass combat, politics, rebellion, sandbox, social, tactical planning==Kill Me a Son*A royal advisor meets with the PCs to tell them of the king's worrisome recent visit to the oracle. The oracle's answers are usually riddles, and often point to unexpected solutions to the petitioner's problems, but this time everything is different.*The oracle said, "The king must kill his firstborn in ten days' time, or all is lost." No ambiguity, no riddle, and no hope. The prince is a fine young man, and none of the issues facing the kingdom require such a drastic measure. But the oracle has never been wrong before. The king cannot disobey the oracle, but neither will he kill his own son. The advisor suspects a conspiracy and begs the PCs to uncover the truth.*The oracular procedure begins when the petitioner brings a living sacrifice and a valuable gift to the temple. He then crawls into the oracle's chamber, prostrates himself, and asks one question of the oracle. The petitioner must remain prostrate until the answer is complete and leave immediately afterwards. The king entered as he had many times before, and heard the answer clearly. He even rose and asked, "Are you sure?" The oracle nodded, dreamily.*The king has been infected with an exotic ear parasite which repeats anything spoken into its nest while blocking out all other words. The guilty party is the king's animal handler, who planted the parasite, accompanied the sacrificial lamb, and made the false prophecy. He is a follower of a dark power, swayed by the promise that the next monarch will elevate his station.*The PCs may consult the oracle, and may speak with the priests and priestesses of the temple, but won't be allowed to inspect or directly question the oracle or the chamber. There is nothing unusual at the temple.*Asked about the event, the king mentions that the oracle's voice seemed to have an unusual quality, and absently tugs at his ear. If the parasite is found, the king will eventually remember tripping over a goat in the stables, and the animal handler who helped him up.*If the animal handler suspects the PCs are on the trail, his cult will send assassins to stop them. The nest can be found on him or in his lodgings. The handler has an uncanny knack with animals, and will use it to defend himself or get away.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) deadline, difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, magic, mass combat, monster, politics, religion, rivalry, shady, siege, social, villain==The Missing Prodigy*A remote village and a nearby temple have an agreement: Each year the temple chooses one of the village's young people to come live and work at the temple, and in exchange the temple provides free services to the village. This year the temple has selected the sheriff's daughter, a promising young healer. However, the girl disappeared during the night on her trip to the temple, leaving her escort baffled.*The sheriff, who has had an oppositional attitude towards the temple since they failed to save his wife's life during childbirth, refuses to help find his daughter only to have her become a slave to the temple. This stance has put him under heavy suspicion. Unbeknownst to everyone, the daughter was approached in the night by a fey elf who overheard the girl's escort discussing her skill as a healer. He asked her to help his village, which is suffering from a plague. The daughter agreed, and she's currently combating the elves' disease, though she is unable to do more than alleviate the suffering of the victims.*If the PCs manage to track the girl back to the well-hidden elven village, the elves are reluctant to let them enter due to the disease, but will agree to send the girl out to meet with them. She tells them that she has no desire to leave, and that she feels the best service she can provide the temple's god is to stay and help the suffering elves. She won't leave unless the PCs force her to, though she will be happy to write some letters to her father and the temple explaining the situation as long as the PCs promise to keep the location of the village a secret.*If the PCs offer to help investigate or fight the plague, they'll be cautioned of the danger but allowed to provide their aid. However, the disease only affects those of magical blood, so the PCs may be immune (as is the girl). With proper knowledge, the disease is revealed to be a magical curse bestowed by a foul black unicorn that lairs nearby. If the PCs track down and destroy this dangerous beast, the plague will break within a few days.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) difficult choice, exploration, innocent, investigative, isolated area, monster, race, religion*Rivalry of Superior and Inferior==Staking Claims*An isolated kingdom has been plagued by a fearsome monster (such as a dragon or the equivalent) for a many years. The king has decided that it's time to stop placating the beast and destroy it once and for all. Unfortunately, the cure may be worse than the disease: Once the monster has been defeated, a number of lesser, but still quite dangerous, contenders will try to claim its hunting grounds.*The PCs are hired by the king to go to the monster's lair and slay it. The lair is located deep within a dangerous region of the kingdom (as few would build settlements so near to the creature), and the PCs will face at least one ambush by the region's monstrous denizens en route to the lair. The lair itself is a high mountain cave that's protected by a crumbling fortress; the fortress is inhabited by lesser creatures that either serve or are ignored by the main monster.*Once the PCs have slain the great beast, they return to the palace as conquering heroes. Unfortunately, the king then receives news that two new monsters have invaded the kingdom-and a third is on its way to the palace itself. The king asks the PCs to beat back the attack on the palace, and then put down the other two monsters before they leave the kingdom in ruins.*If the PCs are from the kingdom, then one of the new monsters will attack the PCs' home manor or village, making things personal. You can also have an NPC lay the blame for the destruction of her community on the PCs, providing fuel for future adventures.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) epic challenge, epic impact, isolated area, monster, politics, tactical planning, trade, travel, twist==Contested Ground*An elven warrior is disturbed by the encroachment of humanity: Her sacred woodlands are being overrun by ignorant heathens. Her unusual hair, which is made of moss and twigs, signals her favor in the eyes of the goddess, and she commands a large and growing group of followers. Opposing her is a young baron, desperate to clear more of the forest to create new farmland. He's haughty but genuinely cares about his people, and the expanding human population needs to eat.*The PCs become involved in this power struggle when they come across a macabre scene while traveling through the barony: a group of woodcutters who have been slaughtered and impaled on stakes of freshly cut lumber. The dead are all human, but elven blood mingles with human blood in the grass, suggesting that there was an attack and elven casualties were removed from the scene. While the PCs are investigating, a group of human knights ride up. Shocked and outraged, they decry the violence.*Once convinced that the PCs weren't involved, the knights ask the party to accompany them into the forest to track down the murderers. Along the way, they fill the PCs in on their side of the conflict between the baron and the elven leader. A few miles into the forest, animal sounds suddenly cease, and a rain of arrows hails down around the explorers. Non-human PCs may receive different treatment, and any PC may be able to convince the elves not to kill them all-but the knights and  the elves fight each other without mercy or quarter.*What happens after the attack depends upon your group. If the PCs side with the elves or the humans, their course is clear: The elves will use terror tactics and guerrilla warfare to drive off the humans; the humans will clear-cut the forest and sow fields to grow food for their people, killing any elves that get in their way. Some groups will elect to act as peacemakers, seeing the bloodshed on both sides as a senseless waste of life.*A major scene should bring things to a head. Either the elves strike a human keep, sparking all-out war, or the humans head into the forest and sack an elven temple with the same result. If war sweeps across the region, many innocent lives will be lost on both sides.*The war will continue unless the PCs throw themselves into the battle on one side or the other, or coordinate peace talks between the elves and the humans. Each side is strongly convinced of the justness of their cause, and disdains the other side. Achieving a compromise will not be easy.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) alliance, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, mass combat, politics, religion, sandbox, social, tactical planning==The Wizard Who Lost His Staff*Not all wizards are created equal, and that's certainly true of the misfit mage who has sought out the PCs. This wizard wishes to employ the PCs to recover his lost staff-the only thing that gave him any credibility as a mage-and he can pay generously.*If asked how he lost his staff, he shrugs and says it was stolen by a showy rival who's always looking for opportunities to lord it over him. Embarrassed, the misfit wizard won't easily admit that his rival stole the staff while the magically inept wizard was doing the one thing he does do well: seducing his rival's wife. The cuckolded wizard could, philosophically speaking, be justified in stealing the misfit's staff-not that the misfit would ever admit that to the party.*As an additional torment, this rival has sold the staff to a local pasha who fancied it as a prize. The misfit mage suggests that recovering the staff from the pasha should be easier than getting it back from another wizard. The PCs can try to resolve this situation in any number of ways. However, if the superior wizard learns that the PCs are actively trying to recover the staff, he tries to intervene.*The PCs might decide to enter the pasha's compound disguised as servants, in which case they immediately fall under the direction of the chief steward. He sets them to scrubbing pots and cleaning statuary-which, if played smartly, grants them access to the pasha's harem. They could meet a mystic who offers them the use of his flying carpet to aid in a rooftop raid on the heights of the pasha's palace. They'll soon discover that the carpet is intelligent and has other plans in mind, like a joyride over the city. The PCs might also follow a false lead to the pasha's heavily guarded treasure room, which is trapped with all manner of mechanical devices and automated guardians. None of the traps are lethal, but they ensnare the PCs in embarrassing ways by dangling them upside down or splashing them with itching powder.*This adventure is best run as a lighthearted and farcical romp, with the PCs shuffling between all the parties in the palace who want or don't want the misfit mage's staff.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) investigative, isolated area, magic, politics, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social, stealth==Tarnished Reputation*During a long-term stay in a city that's also home to some of the PCs' established foes, the PCs have a run-in with a pickpocket that turns out to be far more trouble than it should be. This adventure is best used when the PCs don't have the option to leave the city; inclement weather and crafting time are two good excuses to keep the PCs in one location.*In a tavern or on the street, a pickpocket is caught stealing something inconsequential from a PC, such as loose change or food. This works best if you choose a character that won't react too poorly. Whatever the PC's reaction, the pickpocket goes red in the face and begins throwing ridiculous accusations and excuses at the party. The PCs were "cheating." They're "just trying to embarrass" him. After a few moments, the thief storms off, swearing revenge for this "humiliation."*From then on, the thief makes a nuisance of himself, playing childish pranks on the PCs, such as ruining their baths, exposing them to allergens, or hiring bards to sing embarrassing songs about them. He tends to target PCs who seem to take themselves too seriously.*The thief then starts spreading rumors that the PCs claimed they could take down another group (adventurers, thieves' guild thugs, mercenaries, etc.), and the maligned group decides a street ambush will teach the PCs a lesson. They surround and attack the party as they travel through the city.*The PCs may also discover that a few of their personal effects are missing. Later, they're visited by the city watch and arrested. They're shown their missing items, which were found at the scene of a robbery. If they can't convince the watch to release them, they'll be released in a few days when the watch has proven to their satisfaction that the PCs weren't involved.*Having failed to trip the PCs up too badly, the thief will broker peace between two of the PCs' foes and plan to ambush the party. Leading a mixed force, the pickpocket engages them in an alley, bringing in flankers from behind and ranged attackers from the rooftops. The thief stays in the rear, directing the battle. If the PCs break through the line or damage him with ranged attacks, he attempts to flee. If the PCs don't kill or capture the thief, he'll lie low for a while but will likely return later as a recurring villain.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) city, intrigue, rivalry, social, villain==The Lesser of Two Rivals*The PCs are contacted by a retired adventurer who is having visions of one of his old comrades-missing for over a decade-trapped in a small cell. The party is asked to investigate the site of the friend's last adventure: an old wizard's keep deep in the wilderness. They find the keep's mechanical and magical defenses are weakened but still active, as the wizard recently died in his sleep. The adventurer is held in a state of suspended animation, but the wizard's death weakened the spell, and he can now be freed. He is as young as the day he was ensorcelled, and will help the PCs clear out the rest of the wizard's keep if they like.*After a few weeks of freedom, the rescued adventurer contacts the party with a mission: While he was in stasis, his wife was kidnapped, brainwashed, and made to marry another man. The adventurer offers the PCs a reward for their assistance.*Unfortunately for him, after a period of mourning the wife moved on, eventually getting married again. Her new husband is a good man, more reliable but not as wealthy or adventurous. She has even borne him two children, and wishes to stay with him. The adventurer can't believe this. He's convinced that she must be under some kind of spell, and has already threatened her new husband.*The wife also insists that the PCs help her, as they have brought this terrible situation upon her family. She demands that they do whatever it takes to keep her ex-husband away.*Whether motivated by guilt, love, madness, or just the desire to win, the adventurer will not easily back down. Left alone, he will almost certainly kill the new husband and lose his ex-wife forever. He won't use deadly force against the PCs unless they do so first. What the man really needs is a new reason to live (a cause, another adventuring party, etc.), and his old companions may guide the PCs toward this answer.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, exploration, innocent, magic, mature themes, monster, relationship hook, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit, stealth, twist*Adultery==Cooties*In a small frontier town, a young man spent his idle hours with a local nature spirit, eventually playing along during bonding rites while ignorant of their nuptial nature. The spirit became enraged when he eventually snubbed her for a fling with a local girl, and placed a curse on the town that causes members of the opposite sex to break out in burning, itching hives whenever they come within 30 feet of one another-thus keeping the spirit's husband from his new lover.*The young man is too stubborn to return to the spurned spirit and make amends, and while some of the wiser townspeople recognize the curse as the wrath of a nature spirit, they don't know what is necessary to appease it. The townspeople are becoming desperate and many are trying anything they can think of to appease the spirits-or are simply fleeing town. If the PCs do nothing, the town will soon be abandoned.*On the road to the town, the characters encounter a family leaving town with a wagon loaded down with everything they own in tow, driving their animals before them. Though the men are driving the animals at the front of the procession and the women are following behind, they are all still obviously uncomfortable, and constantly scratch their splotchy, inflamed skin. Beyond rumors of an angry nature spirit, they don't know the cause of the affliction, but otherwise willingly share everything they know about the town. They encourage the characters to turn back.*It hasn't taken much to push the more volatile members of the town over the edge, and some are willing to try anything to stop the curse on their village, including hauling people out of their beds in the middle of the night and making examples of them. A group of agitated young men have dragged a young woman who often spends time out in the forest out of her house, and they accuse her of somehow offending the spirits. If the PCs do nothing, they may injure or kill her in their zeal.*The nature spirit waits for her lover to return and beg forgiveness at the place where she first met him, a secluded forest clearing by a stream. If others find her there, she will not immediately admit to cursing the village, but is clearly upset for some reason. With clever or sympathetic interaction, she'll disclose the entire sordid story, and the PCs will have a chance to talk her into lifting the curse.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) deadline, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==The Shepherd's Crook(ed)*A local rake accused of many affairs with married women turns up dead in an alleyway. It's hardly news, but two similar murders happen the following week. All three victims have reputations as "the other man," and all were beaten to death with a blunt object. Soon after, however, a young man with nothing more than a minor reputation as a flirt turns up dead. And then another, and another.*Townsfolk speculate about the presence of a succubus, a vengeful woman, or a jealous man. The sheriff advises young men to stay in groups at night, but takes little further action. Women of "negotiable affection" are suspected, threatened, and even beaten. The streets are empty at night. The sheriff is in no hurry to investigate as crime has gone down since the attacks began. The local priest takes the opportunity to preach about the dangers of immorality.*The priest has been corrupted by a cursed walking stick, and is the one committing the murders. A demon disguised as an angel gave him the stick, convincing him to carry it by claiming that the implement drives out immoral behavior. The demon then cursed the stick such that it encourages the priest to see immorality where ever he looks and to act violently against it. It also aids him in remaining unseen, though not necessarily invisible, and is a powerful weapon when wielded like a club. The priest has developed a bit of a limp, which he thinks is just an injury incurred during one of the murders, but is actually one of his feet slowly turning into a cloven hoof. The more the priest uses the walking stick, the greater his corruption. The demon is hungry for his soul.*The PCs may be asked to investigate by the family of one of the victims, or by a madam whose business is faltering. They may also have known one of the victims.*Opportunists will thwart the PCs' investigations. Some gangs of thieves have taken to scaring off guards by moaning and thumping the ground and walls with a cudgel. More than a few scores are being settled by hired thugs with clubs, and one enterprising theater troupe has made a costume of a huge cloaked man with a stout staff that they use to frighten victims into giving up their coin.*But the true victims are not mugged, just savagely beaten to death. The crime scenes show the uneven footprints of the cloven hoof, and witnesses may come forward once they realize the PCs are truly interested in catching the killer. They've seen the attacker limping during fights, which could lead the party to the priest. If confronted, the priest will put up a fight, and the demon may shed its disguise and come to his aid.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) city, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, mature themes, monster, relationship hook, religion, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social, spirit, stealth, twist, villain==Infatuation and Jealousy*While the PCs are in the court of a local noble, the noble becomes infatuated with one of them. It doesn't matter if the PC returns the affection-in fact, this scenario works better if the PC doesn't want the attention. Even if rebuffed, the would-be suitor attempts to court the PC with messages, gifts, and invitations. The complication, of course, is that the noble is already married and has a jealous spouse-and the PCs need to accomplish something in court (or may even have been hired by the noble's wife), and can't simply flee the situation.*This is a comic plot that works well when overlaid with another adventure, but it can also stand alone. The noble's wife believes that an affair will blossom, no matter how unlikely that actually appears, and takes steps to ensure that it does not. The first encounter involves the wife politely trying to convince the PCs to leave her husband alone. If they agree, which they likely will, this is followed by the noble redoubling his efforts to win the key PC's affection.*If you really want to drive home the insanity of the situation, then the noble won't take no for an answer. He simply believes that the PC is playing hard to get and counters every refusal with even more attention. This naturally increases the ire of his spouse, who will step up her own attempts to dissuade the affair.*While the PCs are trying to wrap up their court business, the noble conspires to trap the key PC: He makes getting whatever it is that they need contingent on their attendance at a celebratory dance. Depending on how this social scene goes, the PCs may find themselves in a duel for their honor, fleeing the grounds pursued by guards, or able to finish out the dance without any problems.*In the finale, the noble's wife-who simply cannot be convinced that the PC has no interest in her husband-tries to have the PCs assassinated. Can the PCs escape the assassins' blades and still salvage their original mission in court?*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) intrigue, mature themes, politics, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social==The Laughing Princess*Just days before the royal wedding, the princess-in-waiting was unfaithful to her groom-to-be. There is no denying that she betrayed her betrothed, the prince of the kingdom. The high priest has taken the princess-in-waiting into custody, locking her in a high tower and employing hardened crusaders as guards (though she is allowed visitors).*The king's close advisor, however, thinks that all is not as it seems. For one thing, the young man with whom the princess had her tryst is missing. Moreover, the king's son never ceased his own dalliances, and no one demanded fidelity on his part. Even now, with his fiancée locked in the tower, he continues to entertain young ladies of high and low birth.*Should anyone ask a question of the princess-in-waiting about the prince, she attempts to speak but then bursts into uncontrollable laughter. She can talk plainly about any other subject, but she gives over to a fit of laughter the moment she tries to speak the prince's name.*The advisor implores the PCs to do their utmost to uncover the truth of the matter, but he warns them to be wary as well, for the princess' condition hints at allies who employ powerful magic on behalf of the prince.*The advisor is right to be suspicious, for the prince is plotting to overthrow his "fuddy-duddy father," the king, and run things the way he sees fit. Unfortunately, the princess-in-waiting stumbled onto the coup while the prince was plotting  with his co-conspirators, a powerful spellcaster and the high priest. Startled and overwhelmed by the situation, the future princess fled to her chambers. Before she decided to warn the king and raise an alarm, the prince had the spellcaster weave a spell that would disguise him to look like the princess-in-waiting's former lover. The disguised prince went to the lady and seduced the troubled princess-in-waiting. According to the prince's plan, witnesses "discovered" the princess in the throes of passion with her former lover. The high priest took her into custody, where the mage placed a spell upon her that caused uncontrollable fits of laughter at any mention or thought of the prince.*The first encounter that will set the PCs on the road to learning the truth involves investigating the spellcaster and his quarters, where they will discover the spell that disguised the prince. They must then challenge the high priest's loyalty, gather information implicating him in the plot against the king, or develop allies within the church who place the king above the high priest. From there, the PCs can defeat or outmaneuver the prince's guards on the ramparts of the castle, surprise the prince, and then either get him to confess his crimes before witnesses or somehow trick him into admitting his scheme.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) epic impact, innocent, intrigue, investigative, magic, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social==Perilous Infatuation*While the PCs are staying at an inn, the innkeeper's son becomes infatuated with one of them. Unhappily betrothed, he impulsively decides to leave town with his new love and become an adventurer. That night, he bursts into the PC's room, claiming to be in terrible danger.*He says that a rival innkeeper wants to take over his parents' business, and has hired thugs to kill him in order to drive them mad with grief and make them vulnerable. Even if the PCs can escort him out of town, he believes the thugs will pick up their trail and try to kill him on the road. He pleads with the PCs to ambush the thugs and kill them, saving his family from ruin. He claims that the town guard has been bribed to overlook his murder, so the thugs can't be confronted within the town.*In truth, there are no thugs and there is no murder plot. If the PCs agree to help him, they must sneak out of town with the innkeeper's son in tow while avoiding non-existent thugs, bribed guards, and other false threats. The PCs can disguise the son, slip out of town under cover of darkness, or use any other approach they like.*Once they're on the road, the son is much more obvious about his infatuation. He tries to make himself useful to the whole group, but it's obvious where his real interest lies. After a naïve seduction attempt, he reveals his true intentions (but not the betrothal) and asks to be allowed to join the party.*His parents think that he has been kidnapped and, noting the coincidence of their departure, they blame the PCs. The parents of his betrothed think he's skipping out on marrying their daughter. A reward has been posted, and well-meaning relatives, townsfolk, and a handful of ne'er-do-wells head out to track down the PCs. Many of those on the PCs' trail will not give the group a chance to negotiate if they catch them-and murdering townsfolk won't improve the PCs' prospects for a peaceful resolution.*Even if the PCs can convince the son's parents and the town authorities that they were duped, there's still the matter of the son's infatuation with one of them, and of his unhappy betrothal. Will they simply flee the scene, or will they try to resolve things between the betrothed? This scene can form the basis for a denouement, and offer the PCs a chance to gain friends (or make enemies) in town.*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) betrayal, escort mission, innocent, race, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth*==This Land Is My Land*Debts force a local lord to take an extraordinary step to save his beloved ancestral lands from his creditors: He looses a pack of dire wolves onto the property. That and a few well-placed rumors of spectral wolves are enough to keep away the unwary and to make the property undesirable to any potential buyers. Things come to a head, however, when a courier making a delivery to the manor finds the mangled body of a villager slain by the wolves.*The lord's adult daughter, who is unaware of the scheme, seeks out the PCs and implores them to investigate. She fears that supernatural forces will bring ruin to her family. While investigating the lord's business dealings (which reveals his financial difficulties), the PCs also observe him trying to allay his daughter's fears. The lord's animal handlers deny rumors they were hired to transport three large, covered cages on carts from the mountains to the lord's estate; if they're physically intimidated or otherwise coerced, they'll confirm the rumors. When the PCs try to confront the lord with this evidence, he warns them away with a veiled threat: While the villager's death was regrettable, anyone who travels unescorted at night risks being set upon by "the spirits."*In the final confrontation, the lord prepares to sacrifice his meddling daughter to the dire wolves by arranging for her to become lost in the wilderness at night. This means that the lord, his daughter, and the PCs will all be squarely within the wolves' hunting grounds, and trying to apprehend the lord or save his daughter will by complicated by a wolf attack.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) innocent, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, monster, politics, shady, social, stealth==Stepmother's Curse*A local noble seems to have trouble keeping wives. His  wife of almost 20 years died a year ago, and following a respectable period of mourning the noble sought a new wife. She and the four wives he has taken since all died within a week of their wedding day, and all of them were murdered: three were poisoned, one was strangled, and one was stabbed to death in her bed.*The noble claims to have had nothing to do with their deaths, and he is supported by his daughter. More likely, he muses, someone is assassinating his wives so that they won't produce male heirs to his title. While this seems reasonable, the noble's security is tight and it would be difficult for an assassin to slip through. There are also rumors that the noble has gone mad and expects each wife to measure up to his first-and when they inevitably fail to do so, he murders them.*The noble has chosen a seventh wife and the PCs have been hired to ensure that nothing goes wrong this time. Given access to almost every part of the noble's palace or castle, they must first test the defenses. The noble suggests that they try to break into the castle see if they can figure out how it might be done. They must also keep the noble's new bride safe for at least two weeks, after which time the noble believes that the curse will be lifted.*During this time, there is an attempt on the bride's life-and unfortunately the "curse" is really the noble's own daughter. Sixteen years old and deeply disturbed, she has fallen in love with her own father and won't let any woman stand between them. It was she who killed the previous wives-including her own mother, the noble's first wife. The assassination attempt, if foiled, leads the PCs on a chase that ends when they discover the true killer. She isn't a warrior, but she has considerable sway with the castle guards and a number of other tricks up her sleeve.*Once she is captured, the PCs must convince the noble that his own daughter is the real villain-not something he will accept likely, as he loves his daughter deeply.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) deadline, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, twist==Too Many Masked Men*Several young noblemen have been caught moonlighting as infamous rakes, and the city guard, no longer able to turn a blind eye, has begun arresting them. Concerned mothers have pooled a reward and contacted the PCs for help in resolving the situation: They want to know why their sons have started acting so strangely.*Questioning young nobles in the city, the PCs discover that romantic swashbuckler fiction is all the rage among local noblewomen. This has inspired many young noblemen to don masks and adopt secret identities, competing for infamy and titillating observers before revealing their secret to the young woman they hope to impress and "retiring" from the swashbuckling life.*Some of the nobles who were arrested will confirm this to be the case, and will regale the PCs with tales of their exploits. A common theme is a black-masked rake that seems to exist solely to expose their secrets and foil their plans. If he has other motives, he rarely pursues them. The city guard knows nothing of this masked rake, though they do mention that they occasionally receive tips and evidence from an unknown source.*Staking out the guardhouse confirms that the guards are backing the masked rake. Trying to capture him or give chase reveals him to be well-equipped and -prepared, intelligent,    and professional. He carries a variety of alchemical items, has prepared bolt holes throughout the city that he can block as he passes, and employs a range of other tricks.*After losing the masked rake the first time around, the PCs mount another pursuit. This time they're led on a merry chase across rooftops, down gutter pipes, and through abandoned warehouses, with the masked rake always one step ahead of them right up until the very end. When the PCs capture the rake, they discover that "he" is actually a beautiful noblewoman. Having grown tired of incessant and unwanted suitors, she committed a few high-profile crimes, blamed them on a masked man, and began gossiping about and swooning over the "dashing young bandit." This sparked the swashbuckling fad and allowed her to trap and collect evidence on suitors who make nuisances of themselves, freeing herself of one annoying boor after another.*With the rake no longer secretly encouraging the popularity of masked men, the trouble dies down almost immediately. However, it's likely that the PCs have earned themselves a new foe.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) city, combat-heavy, investigative, politics, race, social, stealth, twist, villain==Welcome, Husband!*While traveling in a region with a distinctive tribal culture, the PCs pass through a tribal encampment. As soon as they enter the camp, a pregnant woman rushes up to them and greets a male PC with a cry of "Welcome, husband!" Before he can speak, she gives him a pleading look and presses her lips against his to silence him. As she pulls away, she whispers, "Please play along." You can add a humorous element to this adventure by having the PCs and the locals speak different languages, with only a few locals (like the woman) knowing how to speak a little of the PCs' tongue.*The tribe welcomes the PCs, though with some suspicion. Before long, the PCs will have a chance to be alone with the woman. She explains that by custom she must marry outside the tribe, but she is in love with a tribesman and is carrying his child. If the tribe finds out, she will be stoned to death.*She begs the PCs-and her "husband" in particular-to go along with her deception until an opportunity arises for her to flee the camp and run away with her lover. During the several days they must spend in the camp before the right moment arrives, the PC "husband" is often in the spotlight, but the whole party is also the focus of much attention. The PCs are rarely left to themselves.*The woman's father will corner the central PC as often as possible to talk about the size of the dowry he will provide, how he will take care of his family, and how many herd animals he owns. Marrying outside the tribe usually doesn't mean marrying complete cultural outsiders, so the tribe is very curious about the PCs and their customs. They'll grill the PCs about how the couple met, and some will approach other PCs as possible matches for marriage. The woman's huge brute of a cousin will challenge one or more PCs to a trial of strength in order to prove the husband's worthiness.*The penultimate encounter is a wedding-a surprise to both the PCs and the woman, who expected to leave before then. The PCs need to come up with a way around actually getting married, such as pretending to have marriage customs of their own and offering to (falsely) officiate the wedding.*After the wedding, the PCs must spirit the woman away to meet her lover in the adventure's finale. This scene can be played for humor, run as a stealth-driven escape, or handled as a tense, action-filled getaway.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) innocent, politics, religion, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social==His Father's Son*An incursion of humanoids unlike anything the kingdom  has ever seen has begun pouring over the borders. Naturally, the PCs are in the neighborhood. If you like, you can kick this adventure off with a skirmish between the PCs and humanoid forces. While not obeying all of the customs of civilized warfare, they don't burn and pillage at random, but head directly for the capital city. They also use advanced tactics, only engage armed forces, and treat their captives far better than might be expected.*The leader of the humanoids demands to speak with the king. While stalling him through diplomacy, the king asks the PCs to find out what he really wants, either by penetrating his camp to investigate or by approaching the humanoids' leader as royal envoys. Either way, the PCs will find themselves confronting the leader.*The commander of the humanoids is actually the mongrel son of the king, part-human and part-humanoid, who is seeking public acknowledgment of his bloodline. He doesn't want to inherit the crown, or to live the life of a prince; he just wants to be recognized as the king's son. He contacted the king once before and was rebuked and ridiculed. Now he seeks to have that wrong righted.*Once in the humanoid camp, the PCs will need to find out what the commander wants. They can do this in a variety of ways, including through skilled diplomacy or by completing tests of battle or trust. (One test of trust is to let the party freely roam the camp. Can they play nice with a hostile force of angry humanoids?) The leader isn't a brute, and he understands the value of negotiation. He won't reveal his true goal at first, but can be convinced to do so.*If things go poorly, the mongrel leader will threaten to raze the lands he's taken if the king won't acknowledge him-or to go public with his claim, throwing the monarchy into disarray.*The king initially refuses to accept his bastard son, but will be more open to the idea once he learns that his son only seeks acknowledgement. He must be convinced that his own embarrassment is less important than the lives of his subjects, and that a bastard son in charge of a large group of humanoids might not be a bad ally.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, betrayal, city, combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, mass combat, mature themes, politics, race, rebellion, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, siege, twist*Discovery of the Dishonor of a Loved One==The Dragon's Fang*A retired adventurer who lives on a lavish estate  approaches the PCs, asking if they'll serve as his protectors. The man, who walks with a limp, has been receiving threatening letters bearing a single rune that is unfamiliar to him (or so he says). The handwritten notes say things like "The time for our revenge nears" and "The reaper will collect his due." In all, there are four such notes.*Once the PCs assume their new role, things start happening quickly. Someone infiltrates the retired adventurer's estate and leaves another threatening note on a glass display case in his trophy room. The note is like the others, and the case holds a memento from his past adventures: a fang the length of a man's arm, stained dark with blood, which rests in a stylized gold cup custom-made to hold it.*"It's a dragon's tooth," the man explains. "It's the only treasure I took from that expedition." He claims, falsely, that it was embedded in his leg, and is the reason that he walks with a limp today. In truth, the dragon did leave him maimed, but not through a leg bite. The monster slew all his compatriots, about which he says, "Very sad business, that!" while shaking his head slowly.*Interviews with the adventurer's retainers reveal that they saw a strange, ghostly figure on the grounds-a young warrior in dark leather who appeared at the edge of their vision and then disappeared into the mists. This figure is strangely androgynous, and wears a mask that resembles a dragon's head; some of the retainers say it's a man, others say it's a woman. If questioned on the topic, the adventurer doesn't admit to having seen the apparition or to recognizing the dragon mask, but he's unconvincing in his denials.*Before long, a bard-actually a dragon in disguise-seeks out the PCs and offers to sell them information about the retired adventurer. The bard doesn't know the whole story, but has learned that the surviving children of the other members of the adventuring party slain during their raid on the dragon's lair are involved.*In truth, the dragon cornered the adventurer and offered him a chance to save his own life. The dragon required that he betray his adventuring companions, and the adventurer complied. His treachery was rewarded with a single chest full of riches and a threat against ever returning to the lair. The adventurer pulled the tooth from the body of a dead compatriot as a reminder of what happens when you meddle with dragons. He kept all the gold for himself. The rune is the symbol the party used to identify itself. Years later, a mysterious faerie creature (the dragon in disguise) visited the dead companions' children and revealed the adventurer's treason and greed.*A stakeout reveals the identity of the tormentors who collectively want revenge on the adventurer. They intend to strike fear into his heart before killing him and taking back the treasure he bought with the blood of their fathers and mothers. Depend on how much the PCs find out about the true situation, they may have mixed feelings about protecting the adventurer.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) investigative, magic, monster, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, trade, twist==The Girl with Many Faces*A PC's longtime paramour comes to a second PC and  reveals itself as a doppelganger. It admits that it was given instruction in proper behavior by the first PC's original lover, who had slowly come to loathe the PC and was actually milking her for intelligence to send to the party's enemies. The doppelganger took over for the lover and continued spying on the party, but it has now fallen in love with the second PC, doesn't want to betray the party anymore, and hopes that its honesty is proof of the sincerity of its feelings.*If allowed to prove its loyalty, the former spy will be willing to not only stop its illicit activities but also to feed false information to its employers or counter-spy for the PCs. This may prove a valuable source of information for the party, especially if stealthy characters are willing to accompany their double agent to meetings.*This plot is likely to cause some difficult emotional times for the PCs-and to spark some good roleplaying. Other factors can make the situation more difficult: The doppelganger might prove overeager to please its new lover, for example, making quicksilver changes to its features, gender, and attitudes to match anyone who piques the PC's interest.*Once the doppelganger drops its old form, an old friend it had been maintaining contact with as part of its cover becomes suspicious about its sudden disappearance. Convinced that the doppelganger's lover-the original, betrayed PC-has engaged in foul play, he confronts the party. Without a satisfying explanation, the old friend will report the disappearance to the authorities.*Eventually the doppelganger's employers discover that it's a double agent, or simply decide that the recent decrease in the quality of information makes it more valuable as an example than a spy. Either way, the PCs will have to defend their new friend against would-be assassins.*Alternately, the entire situation could be a carefully engineered plot for some purpose not readily apparent. If the doppelganger is indeed a false double agent, the whole scheme must have been put in motion in anticipation of an exceptionally large payoff.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, monster, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, stealth==Disenchanted Romance*A gorgeous woman who is an ally or friend of the PCs has been imprisoned by the city guard. She isn't a criminal, and she's done nothing wrong that they know of. They can learn of her arrest when they seek her out, or from other contacts. The watch is notoriously corrupt, and speaking with members of the guard will further arouse the PCs' suspicions, as they receive conflicting responses that send them on a wild goose chase. Some watchmen say they've never heard of her, while others tell them she's being held across town. When they get to her supposed location, the watchmen there tell them that she was just released and is already back at home.*When they eventually learn that she was taken to the castle dungeons, they can arrange to visit her there. They find her not in a cell, but in a guard captain's chambers, chatting animatedly with the captain. They both seem to be enjoying their conversation, and she is horrified that she has caused so much trouble for the PCs. The captain explains that it was all a misunderstanding. Her personality seems "off" somehow-and on top of that, she makes eyes at the boorish guard captain constantly.*In truth, she's the victim of a plot set in motion by the captain, who has desired her for some time but has always been rebuffed. He purchased a powerful love philter, paid off guard members to arrest her, and then slipped her the potion in her food. She's now completely in love with him, and unless the enchantment is broken she will remain in this state.*The PCs must locate someone who can concoct a counter-potion, then find a way to administer it to their friend. If the captain catches wind of their plot, he'll use the watch to harass them-and if he becomes desperate, will arrest or even attempt to kill the PCs.*The captain has a weakness that can be exploited, should the PCs discover it: gambling debts. They may be able to arrange to pay his debts in exchange for her freedom. Sneaking into the castle, disguising themselves as members of the watch or the castle staff, or using magic to spirit their friend away are all valid options for handling this freeform adventure.*Once the enchantment is broken, the PCs' friend is horrified by the captain's actions and humiliated by her magically induced infatuation. Depending on how the PCs handled breaking the enchantment, there may be fallout, possibly resulting in all of them, the friend included, needing to flee town.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) city, innocent, investigative, madness, politics, race, relationship hook, sandbox, social, stealth, villain==Speaking of Your Sister…*The sister of one of the PCs has taken up prostitution in order to keep food on the table. She has young children and neither a husband nor the skills to support herself another way, and recent experiences with her ex-husband have made her wary of relying on others for aid.*She stays as safe as she can, saves her money, and calls on clients who are generally discreet and wealthy. But she's in a dangerous and disreputable profession, she won't always have her looks or what's left of her youth, and eventually she will bring shame upon the family name. Her children are also being put at risk because of her choices.*She won't take a handout from the PCs, so few options are available for getting her to change professions. She'll agree to accept a loan while she learns a craft or trade, but in order to leave her dangerous life behind she needs a new residence where none of her former clients can find her. One possible option is a large abandoned house in town that the owners will sell cheap to anyone who's willing to clear out the rats. The rats are being controlled by a clan of wererats squatting in the basement.*While the PCs are killing rats, a group of thugs kidnaps the sister. They've been hired by a wealthy and eccentric former client who has heard that she is retiring, but is unwilling to let her go. He assumes that she has feelings him, or that she will eventually. She must be rescued with some tact and discretion, as the client is powerful and well-connected, and could make her new life miserable.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Western*Tags: (KS) innocent, intrigue, mature themes, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, villain==Disfavored Son*Two noble lovers have been kidnapped, and one of their mothers hires the PCs to return them safely. Before the party heads out, she confides in them a secret: Her son, who believes himself the legitimate child of his legal father, is actually illegitimate. In truth, he is the child of a different lord, with whom the lady was involved before marrying her current husband. Worse still, the woman her son has fallen in love with is actually his half-sister, though he doesn't know it. The noble implores the PCs to find a way to break this news to the two lovers.*Finding the kidnappers' lair is a challenge, and the PCs will be ambushed or attacked openly by the brigands as they roam the wilderness. If they can keep any brigands from getting away to sound the alarm, they can approach the lair covertly and plan their infiltration. Once the kidnappers have been bypassed, dispersed, or killed (and possibly after encountering a series of traps), the PCs will find the lovers held in a makeshift jail cell deep within the lair.*They're grateful to be rescued, but they seem upset. Before they were kidnapped, the son learned that his father intended to bypass him in the line of succession and give his lands to his second-born son. Having already been the recipient   of so much of his father's disapproval over the years, this was his breaking point-he means to marry his lover, whether his parents want him to or not. Once his tale is told, the PCs can break the bad news to the couple.*The PCs can end their involvement here and simply return the lovers to their parents, but most groups will feel invested in the lovers' fate and want to try to resolve the situation. How things go depends on your players, and on whether or not the lovers are actually related. It's entirely possible that the first-born son is legitimate after all, and that his mother or father have ulterior motives for stating otherwise.*In that case, the PCs and the lovers will be opposed by the lord and lady if they try to investigate the truth of the son's birth. If he really is illegitimate, can they find a way to ensure that he is still compensated for being skipped in the line of succession? And what if the lovers want to marry despite the fact that they're related?*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) difficult choice, escort mission, intrigue, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, stealth*Obstacles to Love==Location, Location, Location*In a peaceful valley lies a kingdom surrounded by picturesque mountains. The mountains provide a natural barrier that protects the kingdom and its capital city, which sits in the center of the valley. Unknown to the founders of this kingdom, two gargantuan creatures lie dormant beneath the peaks of the two tallest mountains that look down on the city. Once every 10,000 years, the behemoths awaken and make their way to the center of the valley to burrow down into the earth and mate.*It has been 10,000 years, and the behemoths are awakening. They're beginning their treks to the center of the valley, driven by a powerful instinct to seek each other out. The kingdom now faces an immediate crisis, for although the behemoths aren't malicious, they are aggressive and will destroy any obstacles they encounter in their journey to the mating site. What will happen to the capital city if they should make it?*This is a twist on the giant monster story, and you need to emphasize that the creatures aren't evil but are simply doing what's needed for their species to survive. The PCs may be asked to help the kingdom defend itself from the behemoths, or even to help the behemoths defend themselves from the kingdom.*They first need to survive a major earthquake caused by the awakening creatures. Dwellings shudder and collapse and debris is thrown everywhere. The PCs must protect themselves and others from the chaos.*They must next deal with looters and scoundrels trying to take advantage of the situation. The PCs are in the middle of stopping these villains when the first behemoth appears. The encounter will quickly change in tone as the looters become a mere annoyance compared to the amazing force of nature thundering straight through what's left of the town.*The final encounter will be the capital city's last stand, as both behemoths meet and attempt to burrow into the heart of the valley. The kingdom's armies will use all of their resources to slay the creatures, and the behemoths will use all of their might to defend each other.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) alliance, city, deadline, difficult choice, epic challenge, innocent, mass combat, monster, tactical planning, twist==Beware Pixies Bearing Wedding Invitations*Two pixies arrive with a message: A shadow faerie lord has captured a handsome elven prince, and is holding him deep in a basalt citadel at the heart of the midnight realm. The prince's true love begs the PCs to free him so that they may be married properly.*A raid to rescue the elven prince is his only hope, but it's a dangerous undertaking. The shadow lord is a powerful adversary and commands many dark fey minions. He has an ulterior motive, of course: He's enamored of the elven princess, and he has offered to free her true love if she agrees to marry him instead.*While exploring the midnight realm, the PCs encounter a friendly sprite who, with a bribe of sweets, can lead them past all but one of the dark land's guardians. This guardian is the warden of the basalt fortress, a hag-witch who patrols the area with her armed guards in search of interlopers. Once the PCs reach the fortress, they must overcome other creatures of darkness and mischief, and then make their way to the prince's prison cell. The cell holding the prince is no simple barred chamber, but rather an elaborate magical trap that will test the PCs' abilities and resources.*If they succeed, the bride invites them to the wedding; if they fail, it's the shadow lord-who is as capricious as he is cruel-who invites them to the ceremony. The tone of the reception hall varies greatly depending on the attitude of the bride and who happens to be the groom, shadow faerie lord or elven prince.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) alliance, deadline, epic challenge, innocent, intrigue, magic, politics, social, stealth==Compromised Positions*The PCs stumble across a fight in progress: Bandits have ambushed the sheriff of a nearby town, along with his posse, and the bandits haven't yet seen the PCs. Helping out in the fight earns the sheriff's gratitude, as he was once an adventurer himself. The PCs are treated as unofficial deputies, and get preferential treatment from the locals and the law.*This cozy relationship is tested when one of the sheriff's critics publicly accuses him of seeing a local prostitute and disgracing his dead wife's memory. The sheriff confronts his critic in the tavern, and a very brief fistfight is followed by a public apology and retraction.*In private, the sheriff confesses that the accusation is true, and reveals a complicated plan to get back at his critic. He needs someone to break into the critic's house, kidnap him, drag him to the brothel, and to make sure that he isn't injured in the process. Then the sheriff will show up and arrest the critic for refusing to pay for the brothel's services.*The critic is a respected jeweler with a family who cares about the moral fiber of his community and those who represent it, but the sheriff is desperate. He loves the prostitute, but believes his late wife wouldn't want him to marry her and knows that the locals would disapprove.*By any analysis, this is a ridiculous plan, even if successful. If the PCs follow through with the plan, they'll be laughed out of town, possibly along with the sheriff. The townsfolk will know something isn't right-there's just too much bad blood between the sheriff and the critic. You may want to provide some subtle clues that the PCs need to secretly concoct an alternate plan.*The wife's spirit can be asked for approval, if the PCs can recover something she valued. She died on the sheriff's last adventure, in a goblin cave, and her favorite staff was never recovered. After her death, the sheriff retired from adventuring and settled down here. The cave is a few days' travel away, and is still occupied by goblins. Her staff is wielded by the goblin shaman. Once her staff is returned, the wife's spirit will approve of the sheriff's marriage, suggesting a happy if awkward resolution.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, politics, social, spirit==Marriage Road*A woman comes running up to the PCs in terror, red hair  streaming behind her like a comet, with several armed men and barking dogs in pursuit. The woman throws herself to her knees in front of whichever PC looks the most knightly or noble, and begs the party's aid. Her pursuers demand that she return with them, and explain that she has fled from her husband.*The woman refuses to return, but otherwise tries to reveal as little as possible, as she knows that blackening her husband's name will only incite retaliation. Her pursuers can be driven off relatively easily in a fight; even firm insistence in a parley is enough to convince them to back off for a while. They urge the PCs to bring her to her husband, the baron, before they make trouble for themselves.*When they're gone, the woman explains that she is betrothed to the baron, but that they are not yet married. She loves her neighbor, the town's baker, and asks the party to escort her to him. She explains that if she marries the baker now, she's confident that the baron will abandon his interest in her. Her love for the baker is real, but she's omitting an important detail: The baron secretly worships a dark god, and intends to sacrifice her to his deity on their wedding night. She fled as soon as she stumbled across this information in the baron's study.*Whether they go to him or he sends negotiators to them, the PCs will first meet the baron. He'll either try to strike a deal through diplomacy, or will attempt to kidnap her outright, picking a fight with the PCs in the process. When the party is able to sneak the woman into the baker's shop-avoiding the baron's thugs and cronies, who are searching everywhere for her-they find him surprised but pleased at her interest. He is willing to marry her as soon as he can arrange a proper ceremony: tomorrow night.*That won't be soon enough, as the baron will discover her whereabouts before then and attack the PCs in force-and with the aid of powers granted by his dark god. They must find a way to marry the woman and the baker before nightfall that day, which, as she suspected, will end the baron's interest in her. He will, however, be on the lookout for a new bride, as his dark god demands that he sacrifice his wife before the next feast day-a possible segue into another adventure.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) combat-heavy, deadline, escort mission, innocent, politics, siege, villain==The Wrong Side of the Tracks*A local baron hires the PCs to rescue his daughter, who is  currently in the clutches of a barbarian band (or, depending on your campaign world, a tribe of barbaric humanoids, such as orcs). The baron intends to send an army to crush the barbarians, but he wants his daughter to be out of danger first. The PCs will have to brave the wilderness, enter the camp, and free the daughter before the baron's forces arrive to engage the enemy.*The twist is that this particular band of barbarians is led by a charismatic leader with whom the daughter has fallen in love. She tried to tell her father this, but he would hear none of it-his daughter is nobility and should have nothing to do with a commoner, especially a barbarian. He believes that the barbarian ensorcelled her and took her from the castle by force; his closed mind will accept no other possibility. He won't mention this to the PCs, of course; he'll simply say that she has been kidnapped.*Unfortunately, the PCs are likely to brave many dangers and cut through plenty of barbarians before they learn the truth. They must first trek through the wilderness to the barbarians' camp, staying ahead of the baron's army (which can be as many days behind them as suits the desired pace of the adventure). On their journey, they'll cross inhospitable terrain, fight hostile creatures, and survive inclement weather. They'll also encounter barbarian scouts, some of whom will likely be killed. Once they reach the camp, they must concoct a rescue plan and then put it into action.*Partway through executing their plan, it will become clear that things are not as the baron described. The daughter isn't a prisoner, and she will side with the barbarians against the PCs if they continue their assault. Once the PCs learn the truth, how they react is up to them. For some, a mission is a mission and they will force the daughter to come home. Others will feel guilty about acting as the baron's unwitting executioners, and might join the barbarians in resisting the baron's men. Still others may throw up their hands and walk away, leaving the final battle to fate.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) betrayal, deadline, difficult choice, intrigue, politics, social, twist*An Enemy Loved==Love after Death*Two clans have been hostile to each other for generations, sometimes merely sniping at each other, while at other times engaging in open warfare. No matter what the politics of the region, these two clans will not trust each other, nor will they work together. They certainly won't associate with each other-but unfortunately for one couple, love isn't always that simple.*Despite being from opposing clans, the pair has been meeting in secret, knowing that if their affair was discovered their own kinsmen would likely kill them both. They love each other too much to stay apart, so they've come to the PCs for a solution. Can the PCs find some way to fake the couple's death without arousing the suspicion of either family?*In spite of the seriousness of the rivalry, this scenario is designed to be a comic send-up of "Romeo and Juliet," though hopefully with a happy ending. The PCs must come up with a convincing plot to fake the lovers' deaths, fooling both of their grieving-and highly suspicious-families in the process. If they're at a loss for ideas, one of the lovers will suggest the method used in Shakespeare's play: She'll imbibe a potion that makes her appear dead, and once buried the PCs can quickly dig her up and spirit her away. Of course, the woman's family will decide to burn her body, forcing the PCs to think on their feet.*This is an open-ended adventure in which the action is driven by the PCs. The couple will help in any way that they can, but they're not good actors and will likely make matters worse for the PCs. Both clans will automatically suspect foul play unless things are executed perfectly-and depending on the method the PCs select, they may find themselves suspects in the lovers' murder.*Ultimately, you should strive for a happy resolution. Perhaps the PCs may even find a way for the two clans to finally bury the hatchet (and not in each other).*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) alliance, innocent, intrigue, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, stealth==The Devil's Redeemer*The PCs are in a rough part of a city at night when a nearby warehouse bursts into flames. People in red robes run from the building, screaming. One of them shouts, "Run! The demon is free!"*Once the warehouse is empty, or if the PCs don't immediately investigate, a demon will appear at the door and politely ask the PCs to come in and speak with him about redemption. Having grown tired of the infernal realms, he is now seeking salvation. He coerced a cult into summoning him, broke free of the binding circle, and waited for some good-hearted adventurers to show up. He insists that the PCs accompany him as he tries to atone for his villainy.*To be redeemed, the demon must swear fealty to a good deity and dedicate his life to performing selfless acts, all while forswearing his infernal powers. In addition, he must atone for the most heinous acts in his long existence.*The first atonement is for the act that spurred him to seek redemption: After being summoned to an orphanage, he destroyed the place with all of the children inside. While he can't bring back the slain, the demon can build a bigger orphanage as penance. He knows where a huge treasure trove once was, and offers to lead the adventurers to it if he can keep half for the orphanage.*The treasure trove is in an old dragon's lair. The demon figures that the dragon is long dead, leaving her treasure unguarded. In truth, she has become an undead creature and is served by a small band of kobolds. The kobolds lost most of their clan to the undead dragon when they discovered her hoard, and the survivors bear dragon skull tattoos and worship her. They guard her hoard while her undying spirit is elsewhere.*The dragon's cave has been sealed to the outside world. The only entrance is through the kobolds' small temple complex, which is heavily trapped and guarded. The party encounters a patrol and must clear the complex, culminating in a fight with the kobold leaders. The dragon appears as little more than a skeleton, but will awaken and attack when her trove is touched.*The dragon defeated, the demon thanks the party, and mentions that he will see them again, once he's finished the orphanage. (Note that the demon runs the risk of becoming a "GM's Pet." Either let a player run him, or play him with serious limitations.)*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, combat-heavy, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, monster, religion, roleplaying-heavy, social, travel, villain==Love is a Battlefield*The PCs are part of a strike force used by a military organization for special missions, and they're partway through a long and difficult campaign. The commander summons them to his tent and confides that he has a job for them-one that might not even have a military objective and which could place their lives at risk. But his heart compels him to undertake this gambit, and he asks for their understanding.*Intelligence indicates that the commander of the opposing force is an old acquaintance from his days at the military academy-more than an acquaintance, really. He confesses that they loved one another deeply before the issues of the war pulled them to opposite sides. Perhaps he's being a hopeless romantic, but before the two armies clash on the battlefield he hopes to meet with the opposing commander.*The commander assigns the PCs to infiltrate enemy lines, deliver a message, arrange a meeting, and, if the other party agrees, secure the meeting location so neither side can capture the other commander. Crossing enemy territory can be accomplished through disguise, stealth, or brashness, and once done the PCs will need to look for an appropriate meeting site. Once they've found a suitable location, they'll have to approach the enemy commander without getting killed or captured, and then convince her to agree to the rendezvous. To prove their trustworthiness, the enemy commander asks the PCs to retrieve a trinket from a storehouse in the warzone and return it to her. At least one person on each side of the conflict will see this endeavor as a sign of weakness and seek to subvert the meeting, seizing the opportunity to capture the opposing commander. Investigation may enable the PCs to uncover this deception and put a stop to both attempts.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) intrigue, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth==The Family Stain*The PCs are hired by a woman who suspects that her family intends to murder a treasured friend of hers, a dwarven priest who she loved in her youth. Her family was disgusted and outraged by their romance, and spurned her as long as she was with him. In time, he received a call to faith and left her, but her family has never forgotten their love. The two are still friends, and he's due to visit her next week. She overheard her father and uncle talking about hiring killers to "wipe away the family stain," and asks the PCs to protect the priest on his journey.*The dwarf is still three days away from town when the PCs rendezvous with him. He's shocked to find out why they're there, and doesn't believe that the woman's family intends to have him murdered. He asks for some token of their sincerity before he consents to travel with the PCs. Mentioning his old flame's name smoothes the way-and reminds him of emotions he thought he had buried long ago.*The priest serves his god loyally, pausing for prayer every moonrise, and apart from insisting on sleeping in towns at night, he makes a good traveling companion. The next day, the PCs pass a suspicious pair: two men leading a cow who are too clean to be farmers, and are wearing short swords. If confronted, they say that they're dressed for market, and that goblins have been spotted in the area. They are assassins, and will attempt to murder the dwarf in his room that night.*When the PCs enter the city, an assassin will strike from the rooftops, throwing poison darts at the dwarf. He attempts to flee across the rooftops before the PCs can scramble atop a building and pursue him, likely leading to a rooftop chase.*The woman is horrified to learn of the assassination attempts. She honestly thought that she was being paranoid, and that her family's talk was just bluster. She asks the PCs to accompany her as she confronts her father about his actions-a dangerous prospect, as her family is powerful and wields a great deal of influence in the city. What they tried to do was illegal, however, and if exposed this deed could threaten their power-or turn them into a more dangerous foe. The finale is a freeform confrontation with the woman's father, a social scene that can have a wide range of outcomes.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) escort mission, innocent, politics, race, social, travel, villain==No Good Deed Goes Unpunished*A knight once defeated a horde of terrible monsters that  had been summoned by a coven of witches. The knight eventually destroyed the coven itself, and came to be known as a champion of righteousness. However the coven finished one last ritual before the knight vanquished them: a curse upon the knight's bloodline.*Decades later, the people that the knight protects are hunted by vicious shapeshifters that slaughter whole families in the middle of the night. The knight knows that the cause is his own son-the victim of the curse. The son is a shapeshifter who can take many different forms. Half of the victims of the son's attacks are turned into shapeshifters who can only assume a single beast form.*The first encounter is with a few wererats who try to ambush the PCs by dropping out of the trees that border the road. The wererats screech loudly as they attack, attracting a pack of werebadgers to join the fight.*The PCs are offered shelter by locals who arrive at the end of the fight. The locals tell the PCs where the knight's keep is located, but don't get time to share much more than that: Suddenly, werewolves and werebears burst through the doors and windows, intent on devouring everyone inside. One of the beasts is the knight's son, who shifts between several forms with every attack. Once seriously injured, the son will flee the scene by taking the form of a werebat and flying off into the night sky.*Venturing to the knight's keep, the PCs arrive in the middle of a battle with hordes of shapeshifters that have overrun the defenses. The PCs can use defensive features within the keep to help fight off the shapeshifters, such as dropping the heavy iron gate onto the beasts or launching flasks of burning oil at them from a small catapult.*As the knight lies dying, he tells the PCs the truth and begs forgiveness from them. His dying act is to hand his sword over to a PC and to tell them that it must be used to slay his son-no other blade can bring him down.*The final conflict takes place when the son returns to the keep the next night with a small army of shapeshifters. The son doesn't care about his father's death, but he wants to destroy the sword, which he knows is the only weapon that can kill him.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) dungeon crawl, innocent, monster, race, siege, tactical planning*Ambition==Future Prefect*The PCs are contacted by a mid-level bureaucrat who makes them an unusual proposal: help him get appointed as the empire's regional ambassador (a post that's currently empty) and he'll reward them with treasure beyond their imagination. In his current position, he has access to quite a few records that point to hidden treasures-and in his presumed future position, he'll have access to many more.*To begin with, he offers the location of the tomb of a famous general. It should contain the general's legendary sword and armor. The location is accurate, but the tomb has long since been raided. However, it's currently serving as a base for a scouting party of humanoids amassing on the border. Routing the humanoids and bringing back the information is enough to propel the bureaucrat into contention for the position.*Next, the bureaucrat offers the location of a wizard's tower. The tower is in ruins, but the dungeon below it has never been entered. The bureaucrat wants any books the PCs may find in the tower's ruined library; anything else is theirs to keep. The PCs find several books, and delving into the wizard's dungeon proves to be both a dangerous and lucrative adventure.*The bureaucrat asks for one more favor. A group of bandits has set up shop on a nearby road, and has been remarkably successful in raiding caravans as they pass. The bureaucrat figures that they must be holed up in a nearby cave complex, to which he offers a recently copied map. He also feels that clearing out the bandits will net him the position he seeks, and tells the party to kill them all. As long as the PCs return some of the stolen goods, they can keep the rest.*The bandits are indeed at the complex, and the leader has a copy of the expected caravan schedule, along with defenses, cargo, etc.-written in the bureaucrat's hand, with a note to "copy this in your own handwriting." Knowing that they've been turned into little more than hired killers, and that the bureaucrat is corrupt, will the PCs carry out their final mission?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (KS) betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, politics, shady, villain==In the Name of Progress*A noble has tapped into powerful land-shaping magic and  is using it to build roads. He wants prosperity for his people and imagines a future rich in trade and industry, but although the noble's intentions are good, the reshaping of the land has many unforeseen consequences.*The local fauna, both magical and natural, is being agitated as the land shifts and their homes are overturned. The use of the shaping magic rends the barrier between the mortal world and the otherworld, and strange creatures are slipping through the tears and attacking locals along the new roads. In league with the merchants' guild, the contractor who was hired to finish the rough roads produced by the noble's magic has been paying thugs to keep others quiet about these problems.*The PCs may be called in to stop the invasion of the otherworldly creatures or to avenge locals wronged by the contractor's thugs. Once involved, they will first encounter a displaced and enraged group of wild beasts. The creatures are anxious, having been thrust from their forest sanctuary, and will attack the PCs for simply approaching them.*Surviving that battle, the PCs find some local people gathering to voice their complaints to the contractor about the increase in animal attacks due to the construction of the roads. The contractor will release his thugs upon the crowd, and the thugs will violently beat anyone who is near them, even those who weren't involved with the protests. The PCs will be targeted by the thugs, who hope to steal their gear.*The PCs are told where they can find the noble by a local who they rescued from the thugs. While traveling, the PCs are attacked by one of the otherworldly creatures. The creature emerges from a portal as the land nearby twists and reshapes itself.*The climax takes place upon finding the noble. The contractor, several members of the merchants' guild, and a group hired thugs will surround the noble in order to protect him (and their best interests). During the standoff, the source of the magic explodes and creatures pour from several portals to attack all present. The PCs have to fight the beasts and rescue the noble while the thugs and corrupt officials do their best to interfere.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) combat-heavy, deadline, innocent, magic, monster, politics, social, trade, twist==Gems of Great Worth*A nobleman hires the PCs to retrieve three valuable gems  from some nearby ruins; the area around the ruins is known to be dangerous. The nobleman desires the gems for his wife, and can supply the PCs with weathered maps and a page torn from an ancient book which describes the gems.*On their way to the ruins, the PCs are ambushed by feral satyrs. Their small horns are poisoned, and they use fey magic to try and overcome the PCs. Their goal is survival: They mean to cook and eat the PCs. After defeating the satyrs, the PCs have to contend with the natural hazards of the swamp: snakes, giant lizards, sinkholes, quicksand, and other dangers.*Once inside the ruins, the PCs must survive a rock fall and pass through a submerged corridor in order to reach the treasure chamber. They find the chamber empty, save for recent tracks in the mold that coats the floor: the marks of cloven hooves, which a skilled tracker can tell were made by a bipedal creature. Leaving the ruins, the PCs encounter a wounded satyr half-hidden inside a hollow tree. He doesn't seem feral or threatening, and he isn't mortally wounded.*Once patched up, the satyr explains that he was attacked by several of his feral cousins, and that they stole three large gems that he had retrieved from the ruins. He has little use for gold, but hoped to trade the gems for a noble title and land outside the nearby town-he seeks to get away from his feral kin. If the PCs help him retrieve the gems, he'll give them one in exchange for their aid. The PCs now have a dilemma: They were hired to bring back all three gems, not one, but they can't bring back any without the satyr's help.*Whatever course they choose, they must first deal with the feral satyrs. This band uses different and more sophisticated weapons and tactics than their fellows, and isn't entirely feral. The PCs can try a frontal assault on their camp, sneak in and steal the gems, or attempt a different gambit.*They must then decide what to do about the satyr, the three gems, and the nobleman. The nobleman might believe that there was only one gem, but the PCs wouldn't earn their entire fee. The satyr might also be convinced to part with all three if the PCs can find another way to satisfy his ambitions. If they're able to help him become a minor landed noble, they'll make a fast friend in the process.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, rivalry, social, stealth, tactical planning==United We Stand*The PCs are spending the night in a castle, or in the town outside a castle, when word arrives that an enemy army will arrive by nightfall. The lord pulls the community inside the castle walls and prepares for a siege. Intelligence indicates that the attacking army probably isn't strong enough to take the castle before reinforcements from friendly manors arrive. The castle will be able to hold out for some time - until everything starts to go wrong.*Several farmers come in reporting that they've found the bodies of messengers sent to other manors-shot in the back, with their throats slit, or magically burned to death.*As some of the area's most capable "irregular forces," the PCs are asked to scope out the castle's escape tunnel to ensure that the enemy isn't using it. The PCs discover that the enemy has the tunnel exit under heavy guard, but hasn't entered the tunnel. That's when the PCs start hearing screams from back inside the castle.*As it happens, the lord's brother has decided to throw in his lot with the enemy and has smuggled a magical device into the castle: an artifact which summons savage beasts. The brother possesses a pendant that keeps the beasts away from him. His plan is to get the beasts to tear everyone in the castle apart, allowing the enemy army to take the castle without a siege. The PCs must now save as many people as possible from the beasts-and from the army, which occasionally peppers the castle with arrows and magic.*You can break this adventure down into encounters by giving the party discrete tasks to perform in order to save large groups of people. For example: Two beasts are tearing up the guard barracks, and the guards inside-who would be valuable to have as allies-can't get out without the PCs' help, or a magical salvo from the besieging army sets fire to a critical building, and the PCs must put it out. Once the PCs deduce how the beasts are entering the castle, they must destroy the summoning pendant to end the chaos.*With things inside the castle stabilized for the moment, the PCs must then deal with the brother, marshal their forces, and get the castle's population out through the escape tunnel before the besieging army realizes that the monster attack has ended.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) alliance, betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, isolated area, monster, politics, siege, tactical planning, villain==The Forging of a Nation*The duchess wants one thing, and one thing only: the crown. However, forging unity among the rival dukes so that she might lead a nation will require victories in four arenas: diplomacy, warfare, economics, and magic. In each of these endeavors, the PCs, who are loyal to the duchess' cause, can help secure success. The duchess promises titles and land to secure their cooperation.*In diplomacy, the PCs must convince a rival duke to become an ally without resorting to warfare. The PCs must maneuver through tricky treaty negotiations or demonstrate a willingness to fight a common enemy. They can be the primary negotiators or work behind the scenes through intermediaries.*In warfare, the PCs must lead armies or sway the course of battle to defeat a rival who will never accept the rule of the duchess. There should be a battlefield situation-a "capture the flag" scenario-that enables the PCs to set the tone for the entire battle.*In economics, the PCs must find a way to secure a vital commodity resource: recovering iron mines for dwarven allies from an orc horde, securing a central trade route to the duchess' holdings, or neutralizing a pirate threat along the sea lanes. The objective is to ensure that her duchy is the driving economic power in the emerging realm.*In magic, the PCs must secure a magic item that is symbolic of a prophecy in the legends of the realm's rulers (something analogous to King Arthur pulling the sword, Excalibur, from the stone).*Once the PCs have accomplished these four great tasks, they can be confident the duchess will ascend to the throne and crown herself queen.*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) epic challenge, epic impact, intrigue, magic, politics, rebellion, social, tactical planning, trade, travel*Conflict with a God==The Deadliest Blade*For several centuries, a group of religious fanatics has been methodically collecting weapons-and where complete weapons are unavailable, fragments of weapons-that have been used to kill major figures, whether in battle or by assassination. When they've collected enough of them, they will use a tiny piece of every dirk, arrowhead, sword, spear point, and axe blade to forge a new weapon: a sword capable of killing a god. That murder would not only shatter their rival faith, it would also alter reality in profound and far-reaching ways.*The party catches wind of the plot when a merchant rumored to be selling a powerful magic dagger-one used to assassinate the king of a neighboring land-is murdered and his wares are stolen. Whether hired or personally motivated to investigate, the PCs discover that a local religious figure and an adventurer were murdered in the same fashion, and both carried or owned a weapon of historical significance.*Tracking down similar weapons will lead the PCs into conflict with the fanatics. One battle takes place in a graveyard as the fanatics are trying to exhume a body; another happens in broad daylight in a large town, where the fanatics try to murder the mayor and steal his weapon collection. The fanatics will then bring the fight to the PCs, trying to kill them before they can reach the temple where the forging ritual will take place. Being engaged in what they believe is literally the most important mission they-or indeed, any mortal alive-could undertake, the fanatics will fight tooth and nail, without mercy, and to the death to complete their task.*How close the fanatics are to gathering enough weapons to begin the forging ritual will change how this plot fits into your campaign. The two best options are early on in the process, in which case the PCs can tangle with the fanatics over the course of several adventures, or when they're nearly finished, and need only another fragment or two-putting intense pressure on the party.*There are several easy ways to modify this plot. For example, what if the fanatics are good-aligned, and plan to kill an evil god-why not let them? What if the fanatics are part of a religion shared by several PCs? And what if the gods catch wind of their plan and intervene directly?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, magic, religion==Divine Intervention*Years ago, a hero served his god bravely in a mighty battle. He fought until victory was claimed, despite being mortally wounded. His show of faith moved the deity to bless the hero's unborn child. No matter what should happen, the deity would always watch over the hero's son, protecting him from harm and suffering.*The son is now fully grown and is a scoundrel who often steals from others, having no fear for the consequences of his actions. Whenever he's caught, the deity frees him from his bonds, and whenever he's injured, the deity heals him. The son is guaranteed to live a long life without struggle, and he abuses this gift. The only thing he fears is losing the deity's blessing. The deity keeps his promise despite disapproving of the son's actions, but can revoke the blessing for an obvious act of blasphemy.*The son makes the mistake of stealing one of the PCs' prized possessions. When the PCs seek to retrieve the object, they find any action taken against the son to be ill-fated. The son smugly tells the PCs that they cannot stand against the will of the deity who protects him. Eventually, he escapes the conflict unharmed and undeterred.*The son, however, is intrigued by the PCs and considers them playthings. He tries to frame them by stealing a local treasure and planting false evidence that leads the authorities to the PCs. This encounter will force the PCs to avoid being captured while the son visibly mocks them from a nearby location.*Eventually, the PCs learn of the son's blessing. Priests of the deity explain that only blasphemy will put an end to the son's mischief. Meanwhile, the son has been spreading lies about the PCs, including telling local gangs that the PCs have great wealth on them at all times. Soon, the party is attacked by thugs who demand that they hand over their fortunes. The thugs mention the son by name as the source of their information.*Keep tormenting the PCs with the son's antics until they devise a way to trick him into committing blasphemy. When the blessing is revoked, allow the PCs to enjoy every moment of the son's downfall.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PB) combat-heavy, innocent, investigative, religion, rivalry, sandbox, shady, social, villain==A Scion's Bray*Who can understand the will of the gods? When an evil deity chose a mule in a remote mining town as an avatar, blessing him and his descendants with a blazing intellect and unnatural virility, the results were dramatic. In a few years, with his progeny as an invisible spy network and human cultists loyal to his master acting as his hands, this unlikely figure was able to subvert an entire community via "accidents" and blackmail. Now, with territory in his thrall, a secret temple constructed to his master, and hundreds of his own sentient children, the mule scion has set his sights on expansion.*The scion prepares to expand his influence into an area by supplying his children as farm animals at rock-bottom prices. These mules are intelligence gatherers, so they can be caught eavesdropping and staring with unusual focus at things that shouldn't interest pack animals. The PCs may be waylaid by a cultist aggressively trying to sell them a mule, or may simply notice the proliferation of the creatures and their unusual habits and decide to investigate further.*As the mules' plans begin to progress, anyone with anything to hide may be blackmailed into assisting them. The mules blackmail the PCs with secrets, or by endangering an NPC ally. Those who refuse to cooperate are likely to have unfortunate and puzzling accidents. The PCs may also be called in to investigate a rash of fatal accidents witnessed only by mules.*Once the mules are in control of an area, cult activity rises, so the PCs' first brush with the animals may be in opposing their cultist minions. Depending how secure the mules consider their hold on an area, cult activity may be secretive or blatant. Mules are sure-footed, so their main stronghold is located in treacherous mountains. Those bringing the fight to the mules face guerrilla warfare and dangerous deadfall traps.*There are no distinguishing characteristics between normal mules and the intelligent variety, so once players are aware of the mules, some mule activity can be used as a red herring. Normal mules still exist and still work on farms, so sometimes a mule is just a mule-even when they stare.*This plot serves well as a backdrop for a divine struggle, or a struggle between underworld factions. Depending on how successful the mules are before the characters discover them, this could run as a short arc or even an entire campaign to liberate a nation from its unlikely overlords.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MN) epic challenge, epic impact, investigative, magic, monster, religion, sandbox, tactical planning, travel==A God, Rejected*The old king is buried, the time of his mourning has passed, and the new king is mature and popular. No one expects him to make any real changes, so everyone is shocked when the new king's first decree is to decommission the city's largest, oldest church and order that a new one be built in its place.*The church predates the current line of kings and is easily the most recognizable building in the city. But the king's word is final, and he will not be questioned nor will he explain himself on this matter. The high priest is furious, and has locked himself and many of his higher-ranking priests inside the church in protest. The king hasn't responded to the lock-in, and the entire city waits anxiously to see what will transpire.*The PCs may be contacted by a number of people regarding this quandary. An old priest mentions a back entrance and offers to pay the PCs to help the high priest defend the church, while a young priest mentions a back entrance that is surely trapped, and wants them to escort the king's troops into the church to avoid a public showdown. An "art collector" wants them to find a way in and acquire some of the more valuable items before the church is destroyed. Finally, one of the king's men contacts them, asking if they've heard anything about a rear entrance.*The fabled back entrance is an abandoned well; the well leads to an underground spring that flows through the catacombs. The entire path is trapped many times over. A series of rooms leads higher and higher into the church: catacombs, cells, storage rooms, and then the church proper. In one of the larger cells, which shows signs of frequent and recent use, the party finds an altar to an evil god-complete with chanting priests in black robes. This changes everything, and the PCs discover that some of the priests and laity aggressively defend the area, while others, including the high priest, seem conflicted and confused.*The priesthood has been infiltrated by cultists, and the hierarchy has been slowly drugged with a substance that opens them to the evil god's influence. The good god set the scene when one of his angels spoke to the king on the night of his ascendance, and told him to decommission the old church, but not to give any reasons why. With this corruption at the heart of the church uncovered, what will the PCs do?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, politics, rebellion, religion, stealth, twist==Bloodstain*A king has died, and much of his court opposes the  coronation of his son, the crown prince. The PCs are nobles, friends of the prince, clergy of the kingdom, or otherwise personally entangled in this situation. The court priests claim that their deity doesn't intend for the prince to ascend to the throne, sparking a conflict between the clergy and factions within the court. The queen leads one faction, demanding that her son succeed the king as dictated by royal law.*The root of the problem is an ancient grudge that dates back to the earliest days of the world, when the kingdom's god walked the earth. A concubine he found pleasing was stolen away from him by a bold young mortal, and he has despised the boy's family line ever since. Unfortunately for the kingdom, the king was a cuckold-and the queen's lover was a member of that despised line. The prince, now 16, is the issue of their adultery.*After consulting with the court and clergy as advisors, the PCs are asked to embark on a quest: They are to visit the kingdom's greatest sage and ask her to send back a sealed scroll advising the court on how to resolve the situation. After overcoming the threats between them and the sage (heavy weather, monsters, bandits, or whatever is most appropriate to your campaign), the PCs consult with the sage.*She tells them that the prince is opposed by the kingdom's deity for reasons of blood, and that it seems the queen's bloodline is tainted, though she knows not how. She then gives them a sealed scroll bearing the same information; she won't tell them what she has recommended to the court. (The PCs may find a way to open and re-seal the scroll, of course.) Her recommendation is that the king's daughter, a girl of 12, be crowned in the prince's place. She states that their god will accept the daughter's coronation.*The rest of this adventure is driven by the PCs. They must contend with multiple parties: the queen, who won't want her dark secret revealed; two factions in the court (one backing the prince, the other the princess); the princess, who would make a terrible ruler; the clergy, who can sway the hearts and minds of the peasantry; the nobles, who control companies of knights; the prince, who may assume the throne against everyone's wishes, igniting a civil war in the process; and the deity itself. Whatever the PCs decide to do, the court and the kingdom will be changed forever.*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, city, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, monster, politics, rebellion, relationship hook, religion, sandbox, social==Righteous Champions*Ruling a nation is often more difficult than assuming  power, and without the support of the church, the people won't follow their new queen. The PCs are asked to aid the queen in proving her worthiness according to the tenets of the local religion. As the queen's appointed champions, the PCs must face challenges of a religious nature.*In a test of truth, the PCs must dispatch or neutralize an enemy of the church. They can foil a greedy merchant's plans to foreclose on an orphanage or stop a false prophet despoiling a pilgrimage site. In a test of endurance, the PCs must recover a relic of the church from catacombs infested with undead.*In a test of courage, the PCs must confront the forces of a rival god. In this case, the PCs don't necessarily need to win: Simply showing determination in the face of the avatars and supernatural minions of the opposing deity will suffice.*In the final test, a test of justice, the PCs must stand alongside their sovereign in a journey to a spiritual battlefield, a celestial plane where they confront her inner demons. Pride, greed, and lust prove to be queen's vices, and they manifest as monsters that must be overcome by the party with the queen's help.*Once the PCs aid the queen in vanquishing each of these "sins," they can return to the material plane. She assumes the throne knowing she has the wisdom to conquer the excesses within herself, and the church supports her, confident she can rule with the blessings of their god.*Easily adapted to: Anime, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) alliance, epic impact, intrigue, magic, politics, religion, social, travel==The Sentence is Death*In a world where the gods are easily angered and not  omnipotent, a city has infuriated one of the gods. The deity has decided to crush the city in retribution. A favored follower of a goddess who is part of the same pantheon is stuck somewhere in the city, and while the goddess can't intervene directly, she wants to save her special follower. In avatar form, she approaches the PCs and asks them for aid; if they help her, she will intervene with the angered god and try to spare the city from the full force of his wrath.*The city's location and the nature of the gods will determine the contours of this adventure. A city on the edge of a volcano might anger the fire god and be caught in an eruption, while a city by the sea may suffer tidal waves sent by the sea god. In high fantasy games, a god of death might send a skeletal legion to destroy the city, while a god of the air might send wyverns and rocs while striking the city with lightning bolts.*The favored one should be stuck somewhere in the city. He might be in prison for speaking out against injustice, or he might be enslaved to one of the city's nobles. In any case, he won't be able to leave without the PCs freeing him from his bonds (otherwise, the goddess could have simply contacted him directly and ordered him to leave).*As the PCs approach the city, there are warning signs of what is to come (a volcano rumbles, there's a storm over the sea, rocs soar overhead). While the first wave of the god's wrath manifests itself, throwing the city into chaos, the PCs must find a way to free the favored follower. Along the way, they should have an encounter that forces them to delay their mission; for good-aligned groups, saving a large number of innocents from a collapsing building or similar disaster is a good fit.*Once they free the follower, the PCs must make it back out of the city alive while the god's wrath begins to rain down in earnest. Before too much of the city is destroyed, the disaster ends abruptly: The goddess has intervened. Her avatar meets them outside the city and thanks them for their bravery.*Easily adapted to: High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) city, deadline, difficult choice, escort mission, innocent, magic, race, religion*Mistaken Jealousy==‘Tis the Season*You've heard of honor among thieves? How about some genuine affection?*A lieutenant in the thieves' guild needs a group from outside the guild to do a little job. The winter festival approaches, and in the tradition of the season, the guild's officers provide gifts to one another-and most importantly, to the guild boss.*The lieutenant refuses to let his rivals outdo his gift this year. He's especially concerned about the new pickpockets' captain, who has proven particularly resourceful this year. The lieutenant is certain the captain is going to engage in a bit of one-upmanship to make the other guild officers look bad. He needs the PCs to find out what his rival has selected for a gift.*In the first part of the adventure, the PCs infiltrate the pickpockets' lair, where they find something extravagant labeled "Winter Festival." After they report this find to the guild lieutenant, he makes a show of fretting about it and then implores the PCs to fetch something even more fabulous. He lays out a plan for a heist or dungeon plunder sure to impress the boss, and offers a substantial reward in his desperation.*After securing that item, he seems pleased. In fact, the lieutenant invites to the PCs to the winter festival feast where the guild officers will present their gifts. When the gifts are given, the pickpockets' officer surprises the PCs and lieutenant by presenting to the boss something other than the extravagant item discovered in his chambers. The lieutenant is perplexed but otherwise pleased, because his gift to the guild boss receives lavish praise.*Later that night, the pickpockets' captain approaches the lieutenant with a wrapped box. "This is for you," the pickpockets' captain says. Inside the box are the extravagant item the PCs saw earlier and a note of thanks for showing favor to the pickpockets' faction during the year.*The payoff for this adventure is to make the final gift shine brightly. Paint the thieves' guild as a place where scheming against rival factions is commonplace. Make it gritty. If the guild isn't outright cutthroat, it's at least rough-and-tumble.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) alliance, city, intrigue, shady, social, stealth==A Fool's Song*After a night on the town, the PCs are awakened by  insistent knocking at their inn room door. A bedraggled bard crashes into the room and begs for protection. He claims that the local lord's men are after him, and that he fled to the only "people of action" in town. He also claims he's done nothing wrong, only serenaded the lord's wife earlier tonight. Perhaps "The Bard's Instrument" wasn't the best choice, but everyone was laughing at the lyrics.*Heavy footsteps ascend the stairs, and a rough voice calls out to check the rooms; someone bangs on the door. If the PCs hide the bard, the guards will depart, but the bard will refuse to leave until the PCs escort him safely out of town. The lord's men will continue searching for him. The party could knock out or tie up the bard, but the lord's men might notice a scuffle.*At some point, the lord's men will catch up with the PCs and the bard (or the PCs might turn him in). When they do, grasping for straws, he claims that he knows the PCs; this results in them being brought in for questioning. At the lord's estate, they are witness to an uncomfortable situation: a royal argument. The lady hasn't been intimate with her husband since his return from a long journey. She claims that she loves him, but feels no desire for intimacy from anyone. He suspects infidelity, and the bard's song hasn't helped.*Once they rehash this argument, the bard interjects that the lady has a rare condition, easily cured by a tea made from the root of a certain plant. That plant grows in the foothills of a mountain chain a few days' ride away. "Of course, the bard says, "the area is wilderness, so you'd need an adventuring party to recover the root..."*The party and bard are told to recover the root. On the way, they run across several groups of goblins. The plant is a carnivorous and aggressive vine that has a symbiotic relationship with the goblin clan: they feed it and it protects their dwellings. The bard knows this, but he won't mention it until they get there. The lord and lady will be grateful for the PCs' help, and will be willing to forgive the bard-though the PCs may not be.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (KS) exploration, mature themes, monster, shady, stealth, tactical planning, twist==The Obsidian Lighthouse*An aged wizard grew jealous of his former apprentices, and  though they posed no threat to him, he became paranoid that they were out to get him. He eliminated them all one-by-one, draining each apprentice's power, until only one remained: a young enchanter. Having fled her home, she is now being pursued by the wizard and his evil cohorts. She crosses paths with the PCs and asks them to help protect her from her old master, offering enchantments in exchange.*The enchanter tells the PCs that the wizard's vanguard is hot on her heels, and will surely overtake her soon. She needs to reach an ancient structure that isn't far from where the PCs are now: an obsidian lighthouse that houses a powerful magic circle. She can use the circle to temporarily dampen her aura, allowing her to evade her pursuers for good. Unfortunately, the wizard can also use the circle to steal her power, and he knows exactly where she's headed.*This adventure is an extended chase scene, with little chance for the PCs to rest, and is capped by an explosive finale. As the PCs make for the lighthouse with all haste, the wizard's vanguard catches up to them just outside a small village. Her pursuers are led by an enormous man wielding a black-bladed sword who dedicates each fallen enemy to a demon lord. He leads a pack of savage killers and rides a gray and black spotted horse with a taste for human flesh. The enchanter claims the leader for her own, while the PCs fight the other hunters and protect the villagers.*With one more day of hard riding between them and the lighthouse, the PCs must contend with a magical storm brewed up by the wizard after his vanguard was defeated. When they reach the lighthouse, the PCs can see the wizard's enchanted coach, surrounded by dark riders, a mile or two back.*To keep the enchanter from being destroyed (at which time the wizard will destroy them, too), the PCs must hold off the wizard and his allies while she completes the aura-*dampening ritual inside the lighthouse. They can use the lighthouse to their advantage, but the wizard is a formidable foe. Once her aura is gone, the PCs must escape and get her safely away. Since the wizard can no longer track her by her aura, and considers the party beneath his interest, they needn't face him again. The enchanter will reward the party with several enchantments before disappearing forever.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, escort mission, innocent, madness, race, siege, tactical planning, villain==All that Glitters...*In an untamed land, a nomadic race of tribal humanoids works endlessly to acquire even the simplest of comforts. The tribe has arrived in the region, and their scouts have spotted a shimmering city of silver and gold in the valley below. Taunted by the riches so near, yet plagued by an ever-dwindling supply of basic necessities, they set forth to pillage this majestic treasure city.*Yet all is not what it seems, as the city is merely a collection of dwellings where pieces of scrap tin and busted-up bronze have been used to construct crude shelters. These rough repairs catch the sunlight, and from far off, they appear to gleam like precious metals. The residents of this distraught metropolis are barely surviving themselves.*Unfortunately for the PCs, they are right in the path of the invading humanoid army.*The PCs are attacked when the humanoids mistake them for citizens of the "golden city." The humanoids ride giant toads that are trained to pull the PCs into their gullets with their tongues. The PCs can fight off one or two waves of the attackers, but it should become apparent that it would be safer to head for the glittering city nearby.*The residents of the city will beg for help from the PCs in defending their homes against the humanoid army, which they can see streaming down from the mountains. An air assault will begin as the humanoids attack from the backs of giant wasps, hurling spears and occasionally dive bombing to sting a target.*The PCs eventually discover that the city is actually the remains of an old fortress that must have fallen during an ancient battle. Catacombs beneath the city are full of dangerous slimes and monsters, but also hold an undiscovered armory where intact weapons and some magical items were abandoned.*The PCs can now arm the locals with the items they've discovered-and just in time, as the humanoids are returning with more toads, wasps, foot soldiers, and a war beast in the form of a multi-headed gigantic snake. The PCs need to set up their defenses quickly, and you should reward creative tactics and improvised weapons. If the city survives, the PCs are hailed as heroes and gifted with the magic items they recovered from the ruins.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) deadline, dungeon crawl, innocent, mass combat, monster, siege, tactical planning, twist==Rekindled Flame?*During their adventuring days, a powerful nobleman had a relationship with his companion, a wizard. They parted amicably; the noble married and settled down while the wizard continued her travels. The noble constantly regales audiences in his court and feast hall with tales of their exploits. His wife knows of her husband's past dalliance and harbors jealousy toward the wizard.*Recently, the noble has been sneaking out in the dark of night. His wife has learned that the wizard has come back into the area and it appears her husband is visiting his former lover. Furious, the wife has confronted her husband, but he admitted nothing. She has decided to take matters into her own hands, hoping to drive the wizard away.*As it turns out, the noble isn't rekindling an old flame. Something dark and sinister from his adventuring past is catching up with him, and the noble and the wizard are working together in secret to stop it. The nature of the dark secret is entirely up to you. What could be so terrible that the noble wouldn't tell his wife about it? Is he in fact involved in something even more scandalous than adultery?*The wife hires the PCs to find out what her husband is up to. Their first encounter is a scouting mission, spying on the noble and the wizard. The pair takes pains to avoid surveillance, hinder possible pursuers, and otherwise exercise caution. At first, it appears that the wife is correct and the two are having an affair. When the PCs report this news to her, she flies into a rage and asks them to take things to the next level: The wizard must be driven out of town.*She leaves the details up to the PCs, who have to concoct a plan for convincing the wizard to leave town; her only condition is that her husband not be harmed. Threats, coercion, deception, and public humiliation are all viable options for the PCs to use against the wizard. As they put their plan into motion, however, they run into another party of adventurers who were hired to assassinate the wizard-the wife's backup plan. In the ensuing chaos, the wizard, the noble, or both are killed.*When the dust settles, the PCs acquire several clues about what they were actually up to, and learn that they are now all that stands between the local community and an ancient horror that is fast approaching. They must quickly catch up on everything the former lovers were up to, scramble to devise a plan for combating the horror, and then defend the town.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) intrigue, investigative, politics, social, stealth, twist*Erroneous Judgment==The Soothsayer*There are rumors that something isn't quite right about the soothsayer at the carnival outside town. There are whispers that she's "different," "not one of us," and a "monster in disguise."*She lives cloaked in mystery. She rarely leaves her wagon, instead relying on assistants to fetch items for her. During a fortunetelling session, she never moves from her place behind a curtained divider at the head of a table. She refuses all summonses and only performs readings in her wagon. This should be enough mystery to entice the PCs to investigate, but if not, have town leaders secretly hire the PCs to look into the situation.*An investigation by the PCs reveals her as one of the dreaded snake people, a creature that appears as a beautiful woman from the waist up, but has the body of a serpent from the waist down. If apprehended or attacked in the aftermath of this revelation, she pleads her innocence. She's not an evil     creature, just different; that's why she hides what she is.*The discovery coincides with the arrival of a large band of brigands, horse lords from the steppes, sent to capture the soothsayer for their own reasons. Once they snatch her, it's up to the PCs to mount a rescue effort. Infiltrating the bandit camp is a matter of stealth and deception, but if the PCs plan an assault, a divide-and-conquer approach works well. A series of encounters against certain bandit groups-picket-line guards in the vale beneath the camp, archers on a hillside, horsemen near the flat corral, and finally the leadership within the center of a maze of camps-will let the PCs battle a range of combatants.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) combat-heavy, investigative, monster, social, stealth, twist==Sometimes Locks Keep Things In*A worthless mine is suddenly of great interest when an  ancient stone door is discovered within. It is rumored that the door leads to the treasure horde of a fallen kingdom, and treasure seekers converge on the area.*The prospector who uncovered the door also found a golden pick. It hums with magical energy, and he refuses to put it down. Others are beginning to discover similar golden tools. Those who find these treasures join the first miner in "protecting" the door from the treasure seekers by patrolling the mine, town, and nearby wilderness.*The PCs come across a group of crazed miners attacking a family with golden picks and hammers. When a miner is killed, the golden weapon bursts into flames and crumbles into ash as an evil spirit flies away into the night sky.*The rescued family gives the PCs food and drink out of gratitude. They tell the party that after having nightmares about the door in the mine opening to unleash a great evil upon the world, they decided to flee the town. That night, the PCs all have the same nightmare.*When the PCs awaken, they can hear more miners holding some sort of trial in the nearby town. The PCs witness the miners preparing to execute the mayor and other innocent people, and they must save the townsfolk by defeating the mob of miners. Afterwards, the mayor offers a small fortune in gold if the PCs will investigate the mine.*Upon investigation, they see hideously mutated miners emerging from the mine. The mutants drag their brethren into the mine in order to have them "join the fold." Some mutants will discover the PCs and attack with their golden tools, vomiting black pus at the party. This foul liquid causes those struck by it to be stunned for a few moments.*The final encounter should be a fight through the mine to the ancient door, which has now been opened. In the chamber before the door, a skeletal demonic figure is seen transforming the miners into mutants. To defeat the demon, the PCs must push it back into the door and then cause a cave-in to bury it once again.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, innocent, madness, monster, villain==Powers of Old*While the PCs are in a small town, a mystic comes down from the hills and begins performing minor miracles using an ancient artifact he claims to have recovered from a tomb in the foothills. He is confronted by the local lord's tax collector, who demands that he pay a tax on the artifact; the mystic responds that the tomb is outside the lord's territory, and therefore no tax is owed. He is arrested, and the lord orders his execution.*The people have taken a liking to the mystic, however, and there is much grumbling about how exactly the lord knows the tomb is on his land. The mystic asks the PCs to prove the temple's location to save his life; in exchange, he tells them how to safely reach the deepest part of the tomb, beyond which he suspects there is more treasure. The lord sends his personal surveyor with the PCs to verify the tomb's location. If he dies, the PCs and the mystic will be held responsible.*Halfway to the tomb, the PCs are attacked by degenerate humans-the descendants of the tomb's original builders, now living in the foothills in debased conditions. As they claw at the PCs, they rave about "the holy artifact" which "must return to old ground." They're referring to the mystic's purloined object, which is sacred to them; if it isn't returned, the entire population of hill-creatures will descend on the town.*When the PCs arrive at the site of the tomb, the surveyor proclaims that it is indeed beyond the boundary of the lord's land. If the PCs explore the tomb (bringing the surveyor with them), they find it devoid of threats, as the mystic promised, and soon reach the inner sanctum.*Following the mystic's instructions, they circumvent several fiendish traps and then come face to face with a fearsome tomb guardian: a creature made from the bones of the tomb's inhabitants. After defeating the guardian, they can claim their reward. The rest of the treasure in the tomb is mundane, and isn't sacred to the hill-creatures.*Back in town, the surveyor's findings are enough to get the mystic set free, leaving only the problem of what to do with the artifact he looted from the tomb. The mystic wants to retain it, and the townsfolk want him to keep performing miracles-but the PCs know the consequences of not returning it to the tomb.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, isolated area, madness, monster, religion, travel==Betrayal?*After years of warfare, the king has decided to call for a  peace conference. While skeptical, the heads of state of the warring nations agree to meet on neutral ground. Something strange is afoot, however: The queen, who has always been utterly devoted to her husband, hires the PCs to assassinate the king (though she doesn't tell them who the target is). She has come to believe that the king has been replaced by a doppelganger, and fears that during the negotiations he'll give up too much to his former enemies. In her eyes, it's better to keep the war going than to make a lopsided peace agreement.*The adventure begins with a shadowy figure hiring the PCs to eliminate a "diplomat" en route to the peace conference, in exchange for a sizable sum. They're provided with information on the diplomat's route and security detail. Before the PCs reach the diplomat, they detect that they're being followed. Laying a trap for their pursuers, they ambush them. The pursuers reveal that they work for the queen, as do the PCs, and that she wants to keep an eye on her investment.*Having second thoughts about their own part in this affair, they also tell the PCs that the diplomat is really the king, traveling incognito so as to avoid assassination attempts-and that the king is actually a doppelganger. They seem uncertain about this, though, and few players will take their story at face value.*There's time to investigate the situation further before the king reaches the conference, and once the PCs start digging, they will find that little is as it seems. What's really going on is up to you. Perhaps the king isn't actually a doppelganger, and the queen has more sinister motives for having him killed-or the queen could be the true doppelganger. Someone might also be setting the PCs up to take the fall for assassinating the king-but who, and why? Which option you choose will determine the course of the rest of the adventure.*Will the PCs continue their mission, and try to assassinate the king? Will they turn on their employer and reveal her plot? Or will they find out that they were set up and turn the tables on their betrayer?*Easily adapted to: Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) betrayal, difficult choice, epic impact, intrigue, magic, politics, sandbox, social, stealth, travel, twist, villain==A Series of Mistakes*A sage gives the PCs a straightforward assignment: travel  to an abandoned keep on the edge of an arid plain, meet up with some guides, and follow them to an ancient ruin out on the plains. The ruin houses a set of rare books, and the sage wants them for his library. The sage arranges for horses, wagons, and enough workers and supplies to last three months, far longer than the expedition is expected to take.*The trip to the keep is uneventful, except for one nighttime run-in with bandits who try to rustle the group's horses. The party arrives at the keep a day early; nobody else is around and no tracks are found in the area. The keep is definitely abandoned-a crumbling ruin that's almost unsafe to investigate.*In the middle of the second night of exploration, a grinding sound-as of rock on rock-comes from the keep, and some of the rubble shifts. There's some muffled cursing, more grinding, and a slab falls aside to reveal a pair of dwarves. They look around at the camp, the wagons, the horses, and all the gear and ask, "Are you going to bring all that underground?"*The dwarves quickly fill the PCs in about the remainder of their journey. From here, the path leading to the books goes for miles underground, through a sometimes narrow, sometimes steep set of manmade and natural passages. The dwarves are excellent guides, and will assist in combat with their crossbows. They have no supplies other than their own,     as they were told that the PCs would be bringing everything they needed. It is three weeks to the ruins, as the dwarf waddles.*The dwarves insist on leaving in half an hour, before a large patrol of dark elves returns. The party has to do some quick shuffling and reorganization in order to make the deadline, and must figure out some way to handle the horses and wagons. Water and edible fungus can be found on the way, if the former can be purified and the latter can be stomached.*Once underground, the journey includes encounters with a wild subterranean critter or two, a couple of short but sheer cliffs (one down, one up), and a giant who charges a toll to pass his lair.*The group arrives at a huge subterranean lake, and the dwarves turn to the PCs and say, "We've been wondering how you planned on crossing this." The books are on an island in the middle of the lake, and the lake is inhabited by aggressive serpents. Can the PCs retrieve the books and make it back out alive?*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (KS) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, exploration, shady, stealth, tactical planning, trade, travel*Remorse==The Weeping Dagger*Sickened by his deeds, a great general retired in secret to a war-torn village as penance for his sins. His reputation preceded him, however, and the locals shun him for kin killed and blood spilled. The general's men remain loyal, and still search the region for him. While passing through the village, the PCs can't help but hear rumors about the general; they may have their own experiences with the war to live down, or might have served among his men.*While they're still in town, a priest arrives bearing a gift for the general: a weeping dagger that is believed to lead repentant folk to peace. In truth, he isn't a priest, but rather is an old enemy of the general's who seeks to bring him to ruin-and the dagger, while it works as he claims, is also incredibly dangerous. It's an artifact sacred to a long-lost desert kingdom, once located not far from the village and now long-buried by the sands, and by bringing it to the village the false priest has awoken the kingdom from its long slumber.*Scouts from the ancient kingdom encounter the PCs (perhaps as the party departs from the village) and ask them if they have seen the weeping dagger. Their clothing and gear is archaic, but looks brand new. Whether the PCs tell them where it is or they discover the location on their own, when the scouts learn of the dagger's whereabouts they attack the general and attempt to recover their artifact. Before they are wiped out, they send up a strange flare to signal other scouts about their discovery.*With only days until a much larger force arrives and wipes out the village, the PCs must convince the general to take up arms again, talk the villagers into accepting his help in defending their town, and find a band of the general's men in the area to bolster the village's defenses. When the army descends upon the village, the PCs and their allies will be able to fight them off-but peace will not return until the dagger is back beneath the sands.*The PCs can resolve the situation by returning the dagger, which can be an adventure unto itself, or by convincing the general to do it. Eternal slumber deep in the earth would bring him peace, and perhaps give those he wronged peace as well.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, bearers, deadline, innocent, isolated area, religion, siege, tactical planning==A Last Request*A fabled adventurer well-known for his great deeds and  support of righteous causes summons the PCs to his deathbed, where he confesses to them his one great regret. During his youth as a treasure-hunter and dungeon delver, he acquired a wondrous, teardrop-shaped bulb that he found atop a step pyramid. Shortly before he fell ill, the adventurer learned this bulb belonged to a tribe of jungle folk and, when placed in the center of their great step pyramid, it acted as a charm of protection and prosperity for their small kingdom.*Without their magic item, the realm has fallen into darkness and despair. Fell creatures and warring lizardfolk besiege their empire. It's a perilous journey, he knows, and he wishes he could make it himself, but bedridden and well into his final hours, he asks the PCs to do what he cannot: deliver the teardrop to the jungle kingdom and help them restore their land.*To complicate matters, the adventurer gave the teardrop to the cathedral years ago, and they consider it a holy relic. Through negotiation or theft, the PCs must retrieve the teardrop from the cathedral before it can be delivered to its     rightful homeland.*The perilous journey through the wilderness involves overcoming a raging river, spanning or scaling a great gorge, and slaying or avoiding wild animals of huge proportions, including the monstrous orangutan king. The lizardfolk don't want to see the tribe of jungle-dwellers resurge, so its warriors attempt to stop the PCs in a climactic battle on the steps of the pyramid.*Through all of this, the sentient teardrop tries to exert its will on the party. It works through a telepathic link to convince them to abandon the quest and return the teardrop to the relative safety of the cathedral-the only place it has ever felt safe, and where no one made any demands of it.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) bearers, difficult choice, isolated area, monster, shady, travel==Sins of the Father*When his son comes of age, the elder lord of the land tells him the secret behind their people's great prosperity. Long ago, their ancestors stole a magical orb from the nomads who inhabit the rocky, barren lands nearby. The orb transformed the inhospitable terrain into fertile farmlands and dense woodlands. The people of that land were able to cultivate crops and timber, but when the orb was stolen, the terrain slowly returned to the harsh landscape it had been before.*The son feels responsible for the nomads' pain and suffering. Not only did they have their prosperous lands taken away from them, they are shunned as a cursed people who brought a drought upon their own home. No one knows of the orb, the good that it did for the land, or of its theft.*The son is determined to right this wrong and is secretly looking for adventurers to return the orb to its true home. This plan will cost him the loyalty of many among his people, but he knows that righting wrongs isn't always popular.*The son first asks the PCs to steal the orb back. He offers some information to help with the theft, but cannot aid the PCs directly. The PCs need to break into the lord's manor, sneak past the guards, remove the orb, and then make a quick exit. Keep the tension high during this scene. Dozens of guards will appear to stop the PCs if the alarm is raised.*Returning the orb leads the PCs down a treacherous path. They have to deal with bounty hunters and trackers on the way to the barren lands and must avoid their ambushes, traps, and scouting parties. Within the barren lands, monsters roam freely, and the PCs must avoid being eaten by large magical lizards that spit fiery acid. The nomads themselves no longer trust strangers and will attack the PCs out of fear, but will cease their attacks once the orb is back in its rightful place.*The final encounter will be against a small army sent to steal the orb back from the nomads. Only the PCs can prevent the crimes of the past from being repeated.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) bearers, innocent, magic, mass combat, monster, politics, race, rebellion, shady, stealth, tactical planning, travel==Righting Old Wrongs*The king, who was worshipped decades ago when he claimed the throne, has become a shadow of his former self. Vicious infighting has taken a toll on his family's health and its ability to govern, and the entire royal family has become unpopular.*The PCs are unexpectedly brought to the king's bedchamber. When they arrive, he authoritatively empties the room of his countless relatives, priests, physicians, and such, showing the fire he once had. Cursing his family, the king asks that the PCs make a delivery for him.* "I should have done this decades ago," he says, "but it's not an easy thing, and a king has many excuses. I stole something valuable from a child. It was mean and petty, but I did it. Please return it to him and right this wrong." He hands over a perfectly sealed steel box covered with magical inscriptions. "It will open for him, and only him." He pays generously, repeats the boy's name, and gives directions to a small village a week's travel from the castle. As the party walks away, he smiles and says, "I'll haunt you all forever if you fail."*The boy in question is his firstborn son, and what was stolen was his heritage. The box contains the crown, the royal seal, the royal signet ring, a letter explaining everything, and a large sack of gemstones.*The ride to the village is uneventful, and the only person in town with the name in question is a respected half-elf, now approaching 50. He is currently leading the local militia against a clan of goblins that has been plaguing the area. As the PCs either wait for his return or head out to assist him, they hear that the old king has died, and that his wife and son are fighting over the succession. When they present the box to the half-elf, it opens for him-but not only was he unaware of his heritage, he initially doesn't want the throne.*The queen's faction is the first to hear of the new king, and immediately dispatches a military unit disguised as orcs to raid the village and kill the half-elf. The prince's faction is more subtle, quietly posting a bounty on the new king. Professional and amateur assassins start arriving at the village almost immediately.*The king's half-elven son soon realizes that his only option is to go to the capital and claim the throne. He asks that the adventurers be his bodyguards until he can raise his own. They must contend with the various factions descending on the small town and fight their way back to the capital.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) combat-heavy, epic impact, escort mission, innocent, mass combat, politics==What Have I Wrought?*Not long ago, a noble betrayed his country to another nation in exchange for wealth and power in the new regime. The new regime is oppressive to the people, taking their lands and destroying their traditions. They've imposed a foreign language, religion, and values, and they harshly punish all who oppose them. In spite of this, a resistance movement has risen up and hopes to topple the foreign regime.*The resistance has learned that a member of the foreign royal family is visiting a local castle. They have maps of the castle and information on its weaknesses, and believe the royal to be vulnerable. The resistance has enlisted the PCs to break into the castle, capture the foreign royal, and smuggle her back to the resistance. So what's the catch? This information was supplied by the traitorous noble, who apparently had a change of heart and wants to make amends.*The resistance is skeptical, but capturing the foreign royal is their best chance at gaining leverage against the hated regime, and they're willing to take the risk (or, at least, to hire the PCs to take the risk). Using the supplied maps and intelligence, the party must find a way into the castle, bypassing any guards they encounter. While the castle is far from impregnable, it is full of guards-far too many for the PCs to take them all on in a fight.*Once inside, they'll have to locate the royal, keep her from raising the alarm, and smuggle her out unharmed. This will only be possible with the aid of the castle's chamberlain, and according to the noble who supplied the maps the chamberlain is on their side. This is the first opportunity to throw in a major twist: Can the chamberlain be trusted, or is he in fact loyal to the foreign regime?*The second twist can be the visiting dignitary herself: What if instead of simply being a royal, she's the daughter of the foreign king, and is willing to die instead of being taken alive? She could also secretly oppose her own regime, and be looking for a way to make inroads with the resistance. You can further complicate matters by having the resistance itself be compromised: When the PCs return with the foreign royal in tow, they find the camp abandoned. What do they do with their prisoner?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, epic impact, intrigue, politics, rebellion, social, stealth, travel, twist*Recovery of a Lost One==On the Piper's Trail*The pied piper of legend has struck, and once again he has collected on his cruel bargain. After ridding a hamlet of vermin by piping them out of town, the town's leaders didn't pay him his promised fee-so he then led away the town's most previous commodity: its children.*Luckily the PCs arrive before the trail goes cold. It leads to a nearby cave where the residual magic of a planar portal still lingers. Embarking on a journey across time and space, the PCs track the piper through the portal into a cosmic hallway of doors. Each of the doors provides a quick trip to other places the piper visited: an orphanage in a modern metropolis, a colony spaceship in the far future, and a subtropical jungle village.*Eventually, the PCs reach the pied piper's hiding place, a castle built of dark stone that hovers in a void. The castle itself is a nursery where the children train to be artisans and warriors. Former victims run the nursery and patrol its grounds. While they've grown into adults, they've also grown into loyal     pied piper fanatics.*Confronting the piper, he admits to picking his towns carefully. He has a knack for spotting duplicitous leaders. He knows the ones that will try to weasel their way out of an agreement, and he has long ago convinced himself that it's his duty to remove a generation of children from the influence of such leaders. He treats the PCs as guests until they make an overt move against him.*The PCs can determine for themselves the morality of the pied piper's motives and the welfare of the children under his care. Note that the piper is a powerful planar traveler. You may choose to make him more alien in both appearance and motive, depending on your campaign.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) difficult choice, epic challenge, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, social, stealth, travel, twist==Crimson Herrings*A friend's daughter is among a small group of kids, all six  to eight years old, who have been kidnapped. Their small town is up in arms over the kidnapping, and just about everyone has volunteered to join the rescue posse being formed by the sheriff. Everyone suspects a local gang of bandits, but they've never kidnapped anyone before, nor have they ever raided the town.*The kids were taken from where they were playing near the river. It's at the edge of town, and child- and adult-sized footprints lead from the river to where some horses were tied up. The tracks then lead towards the bandits.*The kids were actually abducted by a water spirit who recently took up residence in the river. The water spirit has granted them the ability to breathe underwater, and they're all playing happily in a large pond nearby. The kids are having fun, but the lonely spirit is slowly enchanting them to forget about the village and their families. The water spirit plans to keep the children forever and will vigorously oppose their removal.*The tracks were made when the bandits came to fence some goods to the local shopkeeper, who had his kids cart them off for him. Unfortunately, there's been so much interference with the tracks that it's hard to tell exactly what has happened. The shopkeeper is either out of town selling the fenced items, or knows when to keep his mouth shut.*If the bandits are questioned or attacked, the party will learn that they know of a troll nearby who may have taken the children. The troll hasn't, of course, but the only way to know for sure is to kill it or drive it off and search its cave.*Once these suspects have been cleared, run off, or killed, subtler clues will lead to the water spirit. Talking to the other children in town is the key. They know about the water spirit, and how it has been looking for playmates. A good look at the tracks away from where the horses were tied up will also reveal some of the story. The tracks coming to town were much lighter than those going away. Some of the townsfolk know the bandits, and know that they'd never kidnap children, but also know better than to share this information easily.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) deadline, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, monster, race, relationship hook, sandbox, spirit==No Treasure Greater*Years ago, a couple's beautiful teenage daughter passed away from a strange illness, growing weak and eventually dying while in a deep sleep. The couple did all they could to save their daughter, but even the local alchemist couldn't help their child. The alchemist, ashamed of his failure, left the village to start a new life elsewhere.*The couple couldn't have known that the alchemist actually kidnapped their daughter. He secretly gave the child a potion that made her appear to die, used magic to create a simulacrum that was buried instead of the child, and revived her with a potion that clouded her mind and faded the memories of her former life.*Ten years later, the wife journeyed to a distant metropolis. There she saw the alchemist walking with a beautiful maiden on his arm. She recognized the maiden as her own daughter and, with great haste, she returned home to tell her husband what she had seen. Now the couple is offering a small fortune for the return of their daughter.*The PCs need to investigate the alchemist in order to uncover the truth of his crime. Inquiring about the alchemist leads to an ambush by his hired assassins. The assassins wait for the PCs to order drinks at a local tavern and poison the drinks so the PCs will be less capable of defending themselves.*A note from the alchemist found on one of the assassins' bodies requests a meeting at the local archives. Searching the archives uncovers references to the potions used by the alchemist to kidnap the girl and to fake her death. The alchemist discovers the PCs when he enters the archives to do research, and he immediately throws a potion onto the ground. A green flame erupts and a monster emerges from the flame. The PCs must now battle the monster, whose very presence threatens to destroy the wealth of knowledge-and all of their evidence-by setting the archives ablaze.*The final encounter takes place at the alchemist's tower. The alchemist will use potions to grant himself powers, summon strange beasts, and animate objects to attack the PCs. The daughter is present, and if things turn against the alchemist he will use her as a shield to defend himself.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, city, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, monster, villain==No Beauty, Just Beast*For centuries, a good-aligned region has enjoyed the  protection of a great beast. Tamed and enchanted as a guardian, the creature is well-treated, but it isn't immortal. When the PCs enter the picture, the guardian is dead or dying, and the region needs a new one before it falls to ruin.*The PCs are tasked with finding a new protector beast and bringing it back to the region; the creature must be unharmed. You can specify the type of creature required or leave it up to the PCs; either way, they won't be the only ones going after it. Other groups, including adventurers and mercenaries, are also on its trail. Once the PCs know the beast's location, reaching it is their first challenge: The beast lives in a distant land and lairs in a hostile environment.*After fighting their way to the beast's lair, the PCs must survive their first encounter with the monster itself, and may find that rivals have beaten them to the punch. (If not, then rivals should accost them on their way back, seeking to steal the beast away from them.) The beast should be good-aligned, but need not be friendly or automatically inclined to return with the PCs. Convincing it of the rightness of their cause is the party's next challenge.*You can also make the location itself problematic: If it lives inside a volcano and none of the tunnels are big enough to accommodate its bulk, the PCs are going to have to lift it out; if it lives on a remote island, the PCs will have to find a ship large enough to haul it home. Be careful in high fantasy settings, as spells or artifacts (even seemingly minor ones) could allow the PCs to bypass a lot of the fun in this scenario.*Once the beast has agreed to accompany the PCs, they must get it home safely. It needs to eat, and may have other, more unusual requirements that must also be satisfied en route. If the beast is sizeable, like a dragon, just keeping it fed will be a challenge. The PCs should face another threat on the way home-one that can only be overcome with the beast's help.*For a more complex adventure, the great beast may have its own defenders that don't want to see it taken away. Perhaps the creature guards another community, leaving the PCs with a "devil's choice."*Easily adapted to: Comedy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, epic impact, escort mission, isolated area, monster, politics, race, social, travel==New Wife's Journey*The PCs are approached by a eunuch who offers them a purse of gold in order to escort his mistress, a stately widow, across the desert to be united with her new husband. The eunuch warns that his mistress has rivals who may attack her, despite the dishonor such an attack would bring. The eunuch has secretly tipped off those rivals, and knows that they will attack.*The widow's dowry is in a pair of small sturdy chests strapped to a donkey, and the widow herself rides in a covered litter slung between two horses; the eunuch rides his own horse alongside. The widow is aloof to those who aren't her peers, but is eager for female company. Female PCs of noble birth are invited to ride with her in the litter. She assigns tasks to non-noble PCs, but lingers in conversation with them, desperate for someone to talk to.*As the group approaches a watering hole on their second day of travel, bandits ambush them and attack. The eunuch flees, pretending to be trying to draw the bandits away. During the fight, the PCs notice that the bandits go straight for the two chests and ignore the widow's litter-which is odd, as the passenger is likely a noble worth robbing. When the PCs prevail, the eunuch returns and both he and the widow heap the PCs with praise for their fighting prowess.*Another bandit attack takes place on the fifth day, two days before the PCs reach their destination. This time the bandits go for the litter, ignoring the treasure. The eunuch fights beside the PCs instead of fleeing, and suffers a minor wound. Knowing when the attack would occur, he drank a small vial of mild poison before the battle, and after the fight is over he falls ill. He claims that his "wound fever" was brought on by a poisoned blade, and he's clearly sick. The widow invites him to ride in the litter with her, and banishes any PCs who were with her to free up space.*As the two bandit attacks have failed, the eunuch now tries to do away with the widow himself. When she drifts off to sleep, he tries to smother her quietly with a pillow. If he fails, the PCs will earn a great reward from the widow and her husband, as well as possible allies; if the eunuch succeeds, calling out that she has stopped breathing, and going to great lengths to revive her, they're faced with a grave problem: Their charge has died in their custody.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) betrayal, combat-heavy, escort mission, innocent, isolated area, politics, social, travel, villain*Loss of Loved Ones==Best Served Cold*A massive war has begun between two civilized races of the   region and a somewhat alien invader (giant bugs, underworld critters, true aliens, etc.). The PCs are members of an elite strike team stationed near the front lines. While the PCs' team is on a mission, their home town is hit by a massive but heretofore unknown magical effect. Latent magic in the area prevents any communication with the town, but it's believed that nearly everyone is dead.*Now, it's payback time. The enemy has been obsessively protecting a small area of their base, and the commander believes that it is strategically important. The PCs are to lead the strike against the area, and no expense is spared to assist them. They are ordered to destroy whatever the enemy is protecting.*When the PCs arrive at the target, they find the enemy aggressively defending a cluster of small buildings. Enemy soldiers are careful not to hit any of the small buildings, but fight to the death. The strike is difficult, but definitely within the capabilities of the team.*The complication is two-fold: The PCs' home town isn't destroyed, but it has been placed in stasis by the enemy's advanced magic, and the area that the PCs were ordered to take out is a nursery for the enemy's young. This isn't obvious during the attack, but if the PCs investigate before destroying the buildings, they'll figure it out.*If the PCs destroy the nursery, the enemy will attempt to destroy their hometown. This is preventable either by aggressive diplomacy or by direct action against the teams heading towards the town. If the PCs don't destroy the nursery, or stop once they find out what it is, the enemy will reveal that the town is in stasis, and that it hasn't been destroyed.*A diplomatic solution is possible because the invaders' homeland is itself being invaded by a third force. The two sides can unite against them if they can overcome their own prejudices.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, magic, mass combat, monster, siege, social, stealth, tactical planning, twist==Long Live the King*Lands the PCs once considered their own are now in the  possession of a foreign power, and the conquerors have captured the liege who the PCs have long supported. The conquerors plan to try and execute the liege on charges the PCs know to be false. The lord is to meet his end in the*courtyard of the main palace. The headsman is a master swordsman from a foreign land who is traveling across the country to do the deed.*As patriots to the land, can the PCs stand by and allow this? Will they intervene? Can they hatch a scheme to save the fallen lord, or will they wait for the liege's death and use him as a martyr to rally the people? It's time to match the PCs' ingenuity against these challenges.*Acquiring what the PCs need to pull off any caper or rescue requires some scrounging. Raiding the invader's supplies-after getting past their guards and wards-is one of the most straightforward ways of securing what is necessary.*Because he's a master swordsman, the headsman should be difficult to intercept along the road and defeat by arms. Be prepared for the PCs to take an unconventional approach to misdirecting, bribing, or waylaying him.*Complicating matters, there is a traitor in the midst of the PCs' rescue operation. Someone is willing to betray the party in hopes of securing power in the new regime. Can PCs unmask the traitor before he foils their plans?*The PCs see their likenesses on wanted posters. This restricts their movement. If disguised, run several scenes where the authorities stop but do not detain them. Let the players become confident in their disguises before the full force of the occupation comes down on them.*Note that you should be prepared for the consequences of any outcome of a rescue: A successful rescue may see their lord become a powerful resistance leader, while his death could make him a martyr of the rebellion.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) betrayal, intrigue, mass combat, politics, rebellion, sandbox, social, stealth, tactical planning, travel, twist==While You Were Away…*When the PCs return to their home base (be it a town, manor, or ship) after an adventure, they find it destroyed. Dead bodies are everywhere, buildings are in ruins, temples have been pillaged, and several NPC friends, family members, or allies are missing. The PCs must figure out who perpetrated this vile act, track them down, and claim their vengeance.*The identity of the villains depends on your campaign. They could simply be a roving band of thugs, pirates, or monstrous humanoids, but connecting them to the PCs' backgrounds will make this adventure more meaningful. Rival adventurers, soldiers in the employ of a slighted noble, or others with a bone to pick with the party are good candidates.*Investigating the ruins of their home base will turn up clues as to the nature of the attackers, pointing the PCs in their general direction. While tracking them, the PCs will run afoul of a natural or monstrous challenge of some kind, such as wounded hostages who were turned loose to die in the forest, and who are now under attack by monsters.*Taking on the villains isn't a simple prospect: The PCs must find a way to bring them down without harming any of the hostages. The villains know whose home base they destroyed, and are ready for an attack. They have defenses in place, including traps and other hazards, and several of them are watching the hostages at all times. Once the hostages are safe, there's the small problem of where they're going to live and how the PCs are going to find and outfit another home base.*This scenario works best as a single session (or two, if you want to use the first scene as a cliffhanger). This keeps the PCs' blood boiling as they exact their revenge-dragging this type of scenario out too long will dilute its emotional impact.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) innocent, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, tactical planning, villain==A Sailor's Life*Recently, a ship with a full crew left port to deliver a cargo  of ale, grain, and iron to an island fortress. The ship was expected to return two weeks ago but never did. Local officials are concerned that the fortress, which houses prisoners and is the first line of defense against pirate invaders, didn't receive the cargo and is in urgent need of fresh supplies. Residents are worried that their loved ones are in danger, or worse. A second ship will be setting sail soon to both deliver the same supplies to the island fortress and to discover the fate of the first vessel.*This adventure is a simple tale of braving the high seas. The PCs may be crew members, explorers, or stowaways. The voyage to the island fortress is a six-week trip that takes advantage of high winds in one direction to reach the island fortress, and then sails a different route on the return, taking advantage of the tides. There are a few stops along the way, including small harbor towns and unexplored islands home to possible treasure and certain danger.*Wherever the PCs go, they can ask about the crew of the lost ship. You should use these moments to portray the crew as good people. People tell the PCs that the crew of the first ship helped others in need, defended against pirates looking to raid small towns, and traded fairly and honestly with everyone they met. They also celebrated life to the fullest, and many a tavern patron remembers that crew as "a jolly good bunch."*Conflict abounds as the PCs run into pillaging pirates, sea monsters, and raging storms. Monsters flourish on some of the islands where the PCs must drop anchor to attend to repairs and pick up supplies such as fresh water.*Reaching the island fortress can be a climactic moment for this adventure: The PCs learn that the previous crew did indeed deliver their supplies, but now a pirate armada is planning to attack in full force. The PCs arrive just in time to help prepare for the battle, and may even be the deciding factor in defeating the pirates.*What happened to the previous crew is up to you, but whatever their fate, it should match their portrayal as noble and honest people.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) alliance, bearers, deadline, exploration, innocent, investigative, isolated area, mass combat, monster, race, sandbox, siege, tactical planning, trade, travel==Shrine of the New Moon*A kidnapper stalks the foggy streets of the city, abducting  the unwary and encouraging the wise to remain home and lock their doors. Victims disappear from their rooms with only a sparkling stone left behind in their place. The victims are never seen again, as the kidnapper is an assassin and they have been sacrificed to the goddess of murder. When the baron's sister disappears, the baron calls upon the PCs to find her; he promises a large reward for her recovery and the capture of the kidnapper.*The assassin intends to abduct one victim each night for a week, sacrificing them to his goddess, and then kill the baron's sister on the eighth night, the night of the new moon. After this final sacrifice, the moon will not rise over the town again as long as the assassin lives.*The next night, the assassin abducts a servant from the baron's estate, and also loots an ancestral blade. The knife was a prize of war taken by the baron's ancestor from the head priest of the murder cult, giving the PCs a clue as to the nature of their opponent. Further research will uncover the assassin's plan and provide ideas for where he may strike next.*Matters are complicated by other parties interested in obtaining the reward, including a red-haired thief, another party of adventurers, and several ambitious townsfolk. The thief offers to let the PCs know the location of the assassin's lair once he rescues the baron's sister; he has no intention of tangling with the assassin himself.*The PCs should have at least one close call with the assassin, perhaps preventing him from abducting his target but failing to catch him, and one encounter with a rival searcher or group of searchers, which may end in violence. The PCs should have a chance to rescue the sister from the assassin's lair before the night of her sacrifice; she is being kept in a cramped room over a smithy, empty but for a tiny cot, a half-loaf of bread, and the baron's sister gagged and bound.*The PCs can attempt to corner the assassin at the shrine or during the rescue, whichever is more appropriate. The shrine is in a concealed basement beneath a ramshackle building behind a tanner's shop (to cover the smell). The assassin will die before he lets himself be captured.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) city, combat-heavy, deadline, innocent, investigative, magic, politics, race, rivalry, villain