Modern Allies=This section features allies from all walks of life, encompassing a wide range of parties, game styles, and possible allegiances. If the PCs need money, you can bring in a shrewd investment banker as their patron; if they need information, you can link them up with a fetish singer who knows everyone who comes into her club. From focal NPCs who can drive an entire campaign to background characters with surprising depth, you'll find a myriad of options in the following pages.=918***=Sarah Dorthian=Mob Therapist="You're feeling guilty because your morality came into conflict with your loyalty. That's a good sign."=Appearance: Brown hair with red highlights frame an aquiline nose, blue eyes, and a tight smile. She tends to wear workaday business clothes, but throws on dark skirts for partying after work.=Roleplaying: She nods, feigning interest, at random moments during conversation. She has a great fake smile, and gracefully delivers compliments. When she hears something that she morally disapproves of, her lips twist as if she's biting into something sour.=Personality: Sarah is trained to help and understand how people tick. Her strong moral grounding conflicts with the relative morality common in the underworld.=Motivation: She has always wanted to help people get on the right track, help them break destructive addictions and find their footing.=Background: Sarah never expected to become therapist to the mob. It began soon after she married her third husband, Jimmy. He came home bloody and bruised one night; initially he brushed her off when she asked how it had happened, but she persisted and finally learned the truth. Mr. Greenstone was waiting in her living room when she got off work the next day. She promised her silence and soon had a few new clients. She recently won the city's therapeutic contract for abused and neglected children, and had to hire new assistants and expand her practice into the space next door.=Traits: (SM) Charming, counselor, criminal, notorious=919***=Agent Cal Berman=Enthusiastic G-Man="Finally, a field assignment! I've been itching for this ever since I graduated the Academy!"=Appearance: Cal is tall, with stylish hair and perpetual shades. He usually dresses in a dark business suit and carries a shoulder holster. He always has a smile on his face.=Roleplaying: An overeager agent who tries to frame conversations based on academy lectures, Cal comes off a little too pushy and believes that his badge commands immediate respect.=Personality: Cal is very optimistic. He's actually quite friendly and perceptive when he's not worried about doing things "by the book." Cal enjoys being in the field and believes that he can solve any case. This latter trait annoys more cynical and senior agents, who believe it is only a matter of time before Cal thinks like them.=Motivation: He genuinely wants to serve his country. =Background: Cal has always wanted to be an agent. He planned on joining the FBI or the CIA until "the Agency" came calling. Cal still got his training and his badge, but he discovered that America, and the world at large, was threatened by dark secrets that he could help fight. Cal eagerly threw himself into his studies and graduated with honors. He is now eager to defend his country against these threats, believing that the Agency will win the day if they just keep trying. =Traits: (WC) Police, political=920***=Allister Marvin=Isolated Savant="Interestingly enough, the common lolcat dates back to 1870, when Harry Pointer first..."=Appearance: A disheveled man in his early thirties, Allister wears enormous glasses, wrinkled khakis and faded T-shirts. He sits in front of a bank of monitors and half-finished computers.=Roleplaying: Allister never meets anyone's eyes, flinching if they get too close. He is very self-assured when discussing technology, often inserting odd trivia. He is wary of other people and keeps them as distant as possible.=Personality: Refusing to leave his apartment, Allister has everything delivered. He loves computers and information, the more obscure the better. He will sometimes spend days searching down a stray bit of knowledge, and once he finds something, never forgets it.=Motivation: Allister wants solitude to plumb and absorb the secrets of the Internet.=Background: More nervous around people than computers, Allister got an online degree in programming and does freelance work. Over the years, he has isolated himself further and further from the rest of the world and the lack of human contact has increased his instability. His immersion in the online world, along with his unique mental conditions, makes him a living Internet archive, able to recall the most obscure facts from the shortest-lived websites. If his curiosity is piqued he can almost certainly exhume even the best-hidden secrets of the net.=Traits: (MN) Business, eccentric, genius, humorous, white collar, zealot=921***=Neason "Big Mac" McGregor=Gregarious Deep-Water Worker="I thought the guy recommended I watch ‘Keeping up with the Cardassians.' You know, like the sci-fi show. Boy, was I surprised. It was about these women called Kardashians. TV wasn't like that last time I checked. Yeah, it's been a while, mate."=Appearance: He's big and brawny, legs and arms made thick and taut by hard work. His once-red hair is sun-lightened and kept in a crew cut. And yes, the tattoo on his left bicep is of an anchor and the word "MOM."=Roleplaying: He's a hugger. A handshake will never do when a big beefy hug will cement a friendship.=Personality: He's gregarious and outgoing, but purposefully clueless about real-life concerns. Unless events touch him, his family, or his friends, he prefers to stay in the dark. Life on the mainland can be confounding, especially all the newfound gadgets-and TV shows.=Motivation: He's always willing to lend a hand-or if need be, two big fists-to assist his friends. He loves work at sea because he lives free of distractions.=Background: He's a big-equipment operator specializing in deep-water assignments. He's hired on at various times as an oil rig driller, an operator for oceanography expeditions, and as a hand for deep-sea salvage operations. He doesn't act like it, but he's got more money than he can spend thanks to his hazard pay.=Traits: (TT) Adventurer, laborer, outdoorsman, wealthy=922***=Seth Kayani=Radical Wilderness Expert="Respect the land, and the land will take care of you. That is what our ancestors believed. We need to return to those ideals if we are going to survive."=Appearance: In his late sixties, Seth has weathered skin with numerous wrinkles. His hair is wiry, white, and long. He has a thin, toned body and rough hands.=Roleplaying: Seth is disinterested in modern technology, and doesn't hesitate to mention how something similar was done (and done better) using ancient ways. He likes to scavenge small snacks from trees and the ground while outdoors.=Personality: He has a strong belief that the ancient ways of living are far superior to the modern way, and he isn't shy about telling everyone this. He becomes annoyed when people do not take him seriously.=Motivation: Seth looks to lead a simple life in harmony with the land and ancient traditions.=Background: Growing up with his Navajo grandfather, Seth learned the history and traditions of his ancestors. Later, he attended college and graduated with dual degrees in ecology and ancient cultures. Seth spent several years in the national forestry service, where he became an expert in outdoor survival. Now, he is contracted by the military and government agencies to teach wilderness survival. He also accepts private contracts as a guide to locate lost objects and head search-and-rescue efforts. =Traits: (PV) Ancient, academic, outdoorsman=923***=Benjamin Moore=Observant Photographer="Yeah. I think I've got something like that on a film roll around here somewhere. Real sick stuff it was, too!"=Appearance: He wears worn jeans and dirty white sneakers with the laces undone. His blue hoodie has small tears in it, and its faded Duke Blue Devils logo is barely visible. A large, battered camera hangs around his neck. His black hair is disheveled and short.=Roleplaying: Ben uses small quips and has an intense manner about him. He leans forward when talking and speaks about composition and color. He'll never remember the model of car at a crime scene but instead how it was parked, the lighting, and the bumper sticker.=Personality: He's very much a rebel with numerous causes. Personal gain isn't foremost on Ben's mind. He doesn't care about materialistic needs beyond how they affect his art.=Motivation: Ben is dedicated to his art, particularly when using it as a tool to speak to the masses. He photographs murders, urban blight, and social mischief (like flash mobs). He likes to make a poignant statement.=Background: Ben is very much a starving artist but he remains true to his ideals. His work barely sells enough to keep him afloat, so he lives in a dingy loft. His camera gear isn't the greatest, but Ben's skill is more than enough to compensate. He's too intense for most folks, and his non-conformist, "screw you" attitude doesn't win him many friends.=Traits: (DM) Artist, impoverished=924***=Lord Aislinger=Adventurous Noble="Why my dear boy, what use is life if it is not filled with adventure?"=Appearance: Aislinger wears a ragged military coat and has short, shaggy black hair. He always stands tall and proud. He exudes confidence.=Roleplaying: Aislinger is always charging ahead to new opportunities. His fortune finances incredible adventures that he refuses to be left out of.=Personality: Charming and cavalier, Lord Aislinger is full of stories. He rarely feels a need to lead the group, but he won't be left out of the most exciting parts. He cares little for pomp and ceremony.=Motivation: Lord Aislinger seeks dangerous entertainment and is always looking for the next new thrill.=Background: As a boy, Lord Aislinger quickly grew bored with the decorum of nobility. Being born to his parents late in their lives only added to this boredom. The moment he was of age, he enlisted in the military to escape. Always rebellious, Aislinger had as rough a time in the service as he did with his family, but at least there was adventure and excitement if he volunteered for dangerous tours of duty. When he inherited the family fortune, he left the military and began funding expeditions to interesting places full of ancient treasure or mystery-and accompanying them. Lord Aislinger is more than a rich thrill seeker: His advice and push-forward attitude create results, but they just as often cause hassles for his companions, as he rarely considers safety precautions necessary.=Traits: (JA) Charming, eccentric, royalty, zealot=925***=Flanna O'Shay=Oily Former Convict="The more you make me twist, the more I'm giving second thought to going straight, you know."=Appearance: She has an abundance of kinky, curly red hair. She wears simple dresses with flower patterns. She always looks uncomfortable performing domestic chores. She is nearly six feet tall and prefers flat shoes.=Roleplaying: She can cast an intimidating pose when she puts hands on her hips and glares down at you.=Personality: She's not immediately likable or trustworthy. She's still inclined to take shortcuts and shady deals, despite her intention to stay straight.   =Motivation: She wants to live clean, but her own nature and her former associates are always pulling her back. When pressed for cash, she's not above taking a small (deniable) role in a confidence game, but if someone offers her a chance for a legitimate profit, she'll jump at it.=Background: She thought she was untouchable as a teen, and her criminal exploits became more daring; she usually stuck to a favorite type of swindle or cheat. Prison was an eye-opening experience for her, one she vowed not to repeat. But she chafes at life on the outside. She's itching to use her "skills," but is waiting for an opportunity to employ them in a legitimate way. If only someone would take a chance on her-she'd be fiercely loyal.=Traits: (TT) Criminal, impoverished=926***=Countess Maria Castillo Vega=Picky Researcher="You say that you can prove this document is authentic, but you acquired it from the lower territories of the peninsula. Several pieces from that area have been revealed to be forgeries. The lack of a slight curl on the lower case letters here and here suggests that this document is not genuine."=Appearance: She is a lovely woman who dresses in very expensive, sophisticated clothes. She wears her family crest on a pin on her lapel.=Roleplaying: The countess never breaks from protocol, and she maintains perfect manners at all times, but she does not correct nor embarrass others who breach proper etiquette.=Personality: Countess Vega is the epitome of class, style, and grace.=Motivation: She seems obsessed with collecting journals and maps from various shipwrecks of pirate vessels from the 1700s. She tells people that it is her passion for nautical history, but her secrecy suggests that there is a more complex reason.=Background: The countess was quite rebellious during her youth. She had earned a reputation for being more interested in the nightlife of a debutante than in upholding her title. Then, while she was sailing the world, she was reported as lost at sea for over a week. Eventually, she was found in a life raft near the Bermuda Triangle. After several weeks of recovery she re-emerged in public as a changed woman. It was around this time that her interest in historical pirate documents began.=Traits: (PB) Charming, mysterious, royalty, scholar, wealthy=927***=Erika Dayne=Brilliant Politician="If we can get those poll numbers just a touch higher, I can win that district next year. Here's what we need to do…"=Appearance: Impeccably dressed, subtly made-up, and blessed with "chief executive hair," Erika is a striking woman in her mid-thirties. Polls indicate that her strong jaw line and habit of raising one eyebrow make her "relatable" and "approachable."=Roleplaying: Erika never has a hair out of place, always says exactly the right thing, and is three steps ahead of everyone else in the room-and smarter than all of them, too.=Personality: Erika's political persona is a carefully crafted blend of strength, intelligence, and likability intended to make her as electable as possible. It works because she really is all of those things. Behind the persona, she's also pragmatic but soft-hearted, gives freely of herself, and suffers no fools.=Motivation: She wants to become the next president of the United States.=Background: A politician on the rise, Erika is a strong candidate to become America's next chief executive, and she's lived her professional life like an audition for that job. She's staggeringly intelligent and has a knack for anticipating her opponents' moves that makes her a truly formidable politician. On top of that, she's a good person and has no skeletons in her closet. She can be a powerful ally for politically connected PCs-and she'd make an amazing president.=Traits: (MR) Famous, focal, genius, leader, political=928***=Laurentiu Mironescu, Ph.D.=Disreputable Professor="They said I was crazy, but here is the evidence! If they could see this... But they can't. They can never see it. This would be too much for their little minds."=Appearance: He's the poster boy for Disheveled Eccentric Professors Anonymous.=Roleplaying: Laurentiu mumbles a running commentary and debates with himself.=Personality: He's never fully recovered from being laughed out of the halls of academia, and buries himself in research in a vain attempt to redeem himself.=Motivation: He seeks the evidence that would vindicate him.=Background: A brilliant professor of history with a strong background in science, Prof. Mironescu claimed to have discovered controversial but incontrovertible evidence that our world is not what it seems. (This could be a Mythos-like elder race, UFOs, faeries, cold fusion, or whatever is appropriate for your campaign.) His reputation earned him some attention, but he was literally laughed out of the auditorium when he presented his theory. He insisted that his evidence was solid, but it failed every subsequent test. Claiming that his evidence had been tampered with, he retreated to the anonymity of a small regional college. The truth is that his evidence was sabotaged by those who would stand to lose much if the truth were exposed. =Traits: (KS) Academic, ancient, eccentric, genius, scholar=929***=Pedro Ramirez=Daring Adolescent="Pardon me, mister, but you don't want that crew to take you down river. They're bandits. I can take you, and for only half the price, too. Don't let my age fool you, mister. I've spent all my life on this river, and I know its waters best."=Appearance: His pants are torn, ragged, and too short for his frame. His T-shirt is stained with sweat and dirt. He is thin and gangly, but he has an aura about him that radiates charm.=Roleplaying: Pedro tries to anticipate his customers' needs and is quick to either perform a service himself or to offer information as to who in the local village would be the right person to talk to. He always holds out his hand, hoping for a little bit of money for his efforts.=Personality: He has a can-do attitude, but is overconfident and frequently gets himself into trouble by biting off more than he can chew.=Motivation: He wants to find his father no matter what the cost.=Background: Pedro's mother died shortly after giving birth to him, and his father raised him as best he could. His father taught Pedro how to pilot their boat up and down the river that flows through the local jungle territories. One night, his father left to pay a debt and never returned. Pedro was left on his own, but will not rest until he finds his father again.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, charming, child, pilot=930***=Marty Anderson=Angelic Invoker="May the angels Raphael and Abdiel avert danger from you this day."=Appearance: Marty dresses in crisp white button-down shirts, dark pants, and sunglasses. His brown hair is artfully wild, and he has brown eyes and a broad smile.=Roleplaying: He invokes the angels before most actions, smiles with sincerity, and is polite and formal.=Personality: Marty wants the world to be a better place. He writes and calls his congressman, circulates petitions, and calls upon the angels to succor the weak and needy.=Motivation: Angels saved his life; the rest of his life can be given over to repaying them and it still won't be enough.=Background: Marty had stage three cancer; they were discussing whether it would be weeks or months before the end. In desperation he turned to a fortune teller-who, it turned out, didn't read tarot cards. She examined him, calculated the angels' positions, and invoked their aid. The cancer hasn't bothered him for the last three years; his doctors have no explanation for the reversal. Marty does-he's thrown himself into the occult world, studying angels and their invocation. He has the fervent conviction of a convert, but reins it in to help even those who don't believe. He's a dedicated charity worker, dispensing advice alongside the more mundane necessities.=Traits: (SM) Counselor, occult, zealot=931***=Caroline Boudreaux=Undaunted Champion="Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, any verdict other than ‘guilty' would be a travesty of monumental proportions when one considers the depravity of the crimes committed by the accused."=Appearance: She wears a trim brown business suit and skirt with high heels and carries a brown attaché case. Her blond hair falls just past her shoulders and she wears small reading glasses over her hazel eyes. A long scar runs down her left cheek, marring her otherwise beautiful features. She's athletic and fit.=Roleplaying: Caroline is hard-nosed and a plain speaker inside the courtroom, but outside she is eloquent and well-mannered. An articulate speaker, she's persuasive and very smooth in her handling of events.=Personality: She projects an air of confidence over her physical deformity and doesn't let it ruin her life. As a prosecutor, Caroline is outgoing and sympathetic to the plight of others.=Motivation: She's dedicated to the cause of justice not only in the courtroom but also on the streets, where they have their own kind of justice.=Background: Her promising career as a prosecutor seemed destined to make her district attorney until she began targeting local organized crime. A break-in at her home was meant to send a message, and during the struggle her face was injured. In the intervening time, Caroline has returned to practicing law, but her aspirations for the DA's office are now on hold. She remains committed to cleaning up the streets.=Traits: (DM) Charming, hideous, white collar=932***=Sharon Kingsley=Rookie Police Officer="All I ever hear from you guys is how little I know; that I'm the rookie. But who is it that spotted the trace of coke on the driver's shirt? The trace that lead to the 10 kilos in his trunk?"=Appearance: Sharon is above average height with a large build. Her short haircut and her sunglasses hid her femininity. =Roleplaying: Sharon talks tough to hide her own insecurities. She has a penchant for foul language and works it into most conversations.=Personality: Despite her enthusiasm, Sharon does not know how the street works. Lacking in practical knowledge, she relies on her instincts.=Motivation: She wants to be the best police officer she can. She's got something to prove to those that didn't think she could survive on the streets.=Background: Sharon grew up without much direction until her senior year of high school, when she saw a lecture by the local police department and decided to join the force. When she told her friends of her decision, no one believed she could do it. In the academy, her instructors constantly told her that she wouldn't make it. On her first day, the sergeant told her that she wouldn't make it. Despite her lack of street knowledge, Susan's instincts are sharp and have guided her to several important busts. She is always looking to prove herself and will help anyone out if she thinks that it could lead to her next big bust.=Traits: (PV) Focal, police, warrior=933***=Representative Jordan Gant=Talkative Politician="Thank you for having me on the show. I know that we are almost out of time, but can I say just one more thing?"=Appearance: With blond hair and blue eyes, he wears his blue power suit and red tie with confidence. Some say that he is too handsome for his own good, and others don't take him seriously as a politician, claiming he's just a "pretty boy" for his party.=Roleplaying: Representative Gant always has one more thing to say about any issue.=Personality: His personality is a little bit rough. He is easily offended, especially if someone suggests his success in politics is merely based upon his looks.=Motivation: He wants to prove that he is a serious politician to all of his naysayers. This sometimes gets him in trouble.=Background: Jordan Gant was an ambitious student in law school, but he needed to make some extra cash in order to pay his bills and continue to attend classes. He took a job as a male model for a campus calendar, and this led to other modeling jobs. While the money helped, he has regretted the decision ever since, because those pictures are still used by his opponents to try and discredit him. For this reason, he tends to talk too much in his attempts to prove that he is a serious lawmaker.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, leader, political=934***=Otávia Henriques=Nervous Mercenary="What was that?"=Appearance: Although physically fit and decked out in well-used hardware, she has an awkward look about her.=Roleplaying: She often says the wrong thing at the wrong time, and as a devout Catholic she can be a bit judgmental.=Personality: Normally socially awkward and jumpy, she transforms into the perfect soldier when everything hits the fan.=Motivation: She uses her God-given gifts to help those who can't help themselves.=Background: The first time Otávia felt comfortable around others was in her early teens, when some punks tried to extort cash from her oldest brother while they were minding the family store. She broke the lead punk's gun arm with her broom and stabbed him with the broken handle. She then asked her youngest sister to bring the fire extinguisher from the office she was playing in, and used it to great effect on the remaining punks, all while calmly directing her siblings how to help out. Amazed at her ability, her father took her to a number of martial arts schools, but the only one that she enjoyed was a full-contact fight club. As a devout Catholic, she always uses her skills to help out those unable to defend themselves or in need of a champion. Since her initial training, she's added firearms and other weapons to her skill set.=Traits: (KS) Adventurer, eccentric, religious, saintly, warrior=935***=Sasha Tremare=Cunning Linguist="Nimefurahi kukutana nawe."=Appearance: Tall and beautiful with ebony skin, immaculate silver-shot hair, and dark, darting eyes, Sasha dresses perfectly in an array of custom tailored suit-dresses that accentuate her natural beauty.=Roleplaying: Sasha speaks in a low, soothing voice. Her movements and speech are languid and sensual, despite her fast-moving mind.=Personality: A gracious and polite woman with a stunning intellect, Sasha usually reaches conclusions before others, even presented with the same information, but is rarely obnoxious or rude, instead giving others a chance to reach their own conclusions before speaking.=Motivation: Sasha seeks intellectual challenges and interesting diversions to keep her mind sharp.=Background: A child prodigy, Sasha graduated high school at 12, received several doctoral degreess by the age of 21, and has mastered over 15 languages. She was recruited by the NSA, but eventually left to start her own cryptology business. A millionaire by 30, she now spends her time supporting various research projects and taking the occasional case which piques her interest, and is often called in to consult for the FBI and CIA. She is currently writing a treatise on the Voynich manuscripts.=Traits: (MN) Academic, beautiful, business, famous, genius, scholar, wealthy=936***=Rev. Randy Rojas=Pleasant Clergyman="All are welcome here, brother. I am happy to share what I know, and when you are ready to turn that sword into a plowshare, just let me know."=Appearance: Randy is a large man, over 400 lbs. His face is scarred and he is missing an eye, which has been surgically closed. He dresses in a reverend's shirt and collar. =Roleplaying: He smiles often and laughs all the time. He greets people jovially, turning every handshake into a hug.=Personality: Randy is a warm, friendly, and inviting person. Everyone is his brother and sister, and he will make people as comfortable as possible.=Motivation: Randy has given himself to God. He works hard to tend to his neighborhood flock. =Background: Raised in a gang neighborhood, Randy dropped out of high school and ran with the local crew. One night, while hanging out with his fellow gang members, Randy was ambushed by a rival gang. They dropped a Molotov cocktail into his car. In the ensuing fire, he lost his eye and was horribly burned. It was in the hospital that Randy found God and gave up his gang affiliation. He was able to open a small church in his neighborhood. Now, he serves as a tremendous source of information about the neighborhood and the gangs that surround it.=Traits: (PV) Counselor, hideous, religious=937***=Siobhan McAllister=Passionate Activist="The world is dying and organized religion and "family values" aren't going to save it. We need to return to our primal, communal state, when we lived as one with nature."=Appearance: Siobhan is a young woman just out of college. She straightens her naturally curly red hair. She wears a slogan-emblazoned T-shirt, skinny jeans, and Converse sneakers, usually accessorized with scarves, thin ties, or an open button-down shirt. She won't wear anything made from animal products.=Roleplaying: It only takes a couple of minutes to realize how passionate Siobhan is. She's always angry about something, regardless of whether it directly affects her. Pointing out her comfortable upbringing only angers her more as she interprets it as a dismissal of her opinions.=Personality: She is a jumble of emotions. She's angry and depressed, although even she can't pinpoint why. She feels that every injustice is personal and she throws herself into any cause that she believes in. Siobhan is a vegan and is currently on a raw food diet.=Motivation: She wants to create a perfect world, one cause at a time.=Background: Siobhan had a relatively comfortable upbringing in a quiet suburban neighborhood. Once she became a teenager Siobhan became more aware of the world around her, joining groups that promoted various causes. She's well-connected in such circles and personally knows someone influential in any given organization. Siobhan is never shy about sharing her opinions.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, zealot=938***=Kando Joichi=Shrewd Investment Banker="I need some insider information, and I want you to get it for me. Take your usual fee, and add two zeros to the end."=Appearance: Trim and fit, Kando has a soft, rounded face that seems at odds with his usual expression of calculating alertness.=Roleplaying: Prickly and sensitive, Kando makes it hard to like him. He flaunts his intelligence, dismisses others as idiots, and pays top dollar to get what he wants.=Personality: Kando wants money and power, and he isn't afraid to break a few rules to get them. He breaks the mold of the workaholic Wall Street executive who puts in 80-hour weeks: He's always home by 5:00 pm, dotes on his family, and never does "power dinners." He's blunt to the point of offensiveness, and can be hard to get along with.=Motivation: Kando wants to make enough money to buy his former employer's company outright.=Background: Burned by his former employer, who fired him for having a "lax work ethic" because he wouldn't work 20-hour days, Kando still feels that termination intensely. He has a nose for good investments, and he works every day to prove that his former company was very, very wrong to fire him. Which they were-he's amazing at what he does. If the PCs can stand him, he can send an enormous amount of money their way, particularly if they're inclined towards illicit activities.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, business, genius, power hungry, white collar=939***=Jillian Croix=Recovering Savior="No one is beyond our help."=Appearance: Jillian is a waif of a woman with slender arms, sunken features, large brown eyes, and slightly discolored teeth. Her chestnut hair falls down to her shoulder blades. She wears simple jeans and a halter-top. A silver crucifix hangs around her neck.=Roleplaying: Jillian doesn't speak much and is jumpy. She has a nervous habit of bouncing her feet and bites at her bottom lip. When speaking, she's quiet, as if ashamed.=Personality: She's sympathetic to the plight of the needy and those who live on the street, as she once did. She's always giving people the benefit of the doubt and this naiveté is sometimes used against her. Jillian doesn't mind; she carries a lot of emotional baggage from her past. She's street smart and has many contacts.=Motivation: She seeks to help others and share the good word. Her sordid background makes her willing to overlook others' faults.=Background: A street urchin, Jillian was a petty thief at the age of 12. Hanging out with gangs, she luckily avoided prostitution, but not drugs. It took a near-death overdose to scare her straight and spark her religious awakening. In Jillian's eyes, if she can do it, anyone can. She feels a calling to help others from falling as she did. She understands that others aren't as strong, so she's willing to bend the rules and help when she can.=Traits: (DM) Religious, stealthy, zealot=940***=Simone Noir=Fetish Singer="Of course I know Judge Fein. She has quite…exotic…tastes. She preserves to keep them private, so watch who comes and goes from her place on Wednesday nights if you want to see her ‘friends.'"=Appearance: Simone looks like a mid-20th century torch singer with a gothic sheen. Her hair is a lustrous black, her skin is porcelain white, and her gangster-era dresses are always cut to show off her never-ending legs. She has a deliciously wicked smile.=Roleplaying: She is charming and flirty, lacing almost every sentence with double-entendres and sexual innuendo. In spite of this she seems more playful than disturbing and she doesn't try to talk anyone into doing anything with which they're uncomfortable. She feels her job is to discover what is "comfortable."=Personality: Simone was once an unassuming college student. She "gothed up" and sang to make money, but her new personality completely took over. Simone is like a Superman that repressed Clark Kent. She's fun, outgoing, risqué, and eager to try new things.=Motivation: She is an unabashed hedonist.=Background: Simone began life as Jennifer Waters, an above-average student, but shy and introverted. Discovering she could sing opened doors for her, and Jennifer soon invented a goth persona, Simone Noir, to go with her sound. Within months, "Jennifer" disappeared as "Simone" became popular in local venues. Now in her tenth year of singing, Simone is well-connected with the club scene and a fixture at fetish parties. She's currently toying with a steampunk look.=Traits: (WC) Artist, charming, eccentric, entertainment=941***=Mark Kent=Straight-Arrow Politician="I'm here to represent you. When I vote, it's to help the district."=Appearance: He wears the traditional blue suit, dark tie, white collared shirt of an American politician. His hair is cut short but not severe. He is moderately handsome, more youthful looking than his 50 years, and of above-average height.=Roleplaying:  Before every public appearance, he goes through a ritual of tilting his chin up, straightening his tie and adjusting the sleeves at the cuffs.=Personality: He is attentive, personable, and seems earnest. He is immediately likable. =Motivation: He became a public servant to "do good," and believes he fills that role. He is far from being worldly, but for constituents and activists, he's always willing to grant aid, access, and whatever influence he can muster to help.=Background: He often campaigns as "Honest Mark Kent, a neighbor you can trust to send to the capital." Because he follows his heart more than his head, he often frustrates his own party's whips more than the opposition. The scope of larger issues eludes him, and because he can't connect the dots, he's hard to make political deals with. Whenever in doubt, he follows a simple rule: vote for the district. His two sons are now in college, but their popularity as high school sports stars did a lot to ensure his re-election.=Traits: (TT) Leader, political=942***=Mizuki Kobayashi=Corporate Assassin="Your group shows a 24% contraction year over year; double that of the next-worst division. Please explain."=Appearance: Mizuki is 5'5" and effortlessly sexy with brown hair falling to mid-shoulder, dark eyes, and comely curves. She dresses to emphasize her Japanese features-but her California upbringing lets a simple clothing change and attitude shift transform her dramatically.=Roleplaying: She leans forward to distract men-and derail conversation without drawing notice. Her makeup kit is always at her side, and she goes through its compartments, studying others in its mirrors. Similarly, drawing on lipstick is often enough to get her opponents to dismiss her-or lower their guard for a key moment.=Personality: She is supremely confident, but often adopts a stereotypically Asian diffidence to pass without notice. She loves upsetting expectations, reveling in the moment she reveals her deadly purpose.=Motivation: Mizuki is confident that she's among the world's best warriors; few who have faced her are alive to dispute her claim. It's what she was raised to be, and it pays well.=Background: She's a child of two worlds; an excellent gymnast from age four, dangerous with a staff by six-deadly before she was a teen. She earned a business degree from Nagoya University, but works behind the scenes for the corporations that can afford her. Before, she was dispatched to review flailing divisions and write effective reports, but her secret skills as an assassin are far more lucrative.=Traits: (SM) Business, mysterious, warrior=943***=Thanh "Tommy" Nguyen=Cocky Hacker="I can has honeypot? Seriously? Epic fail. Nom-nom-nom... All your data are belong to us."=Appearance: A skinny Asian man in his early twenties, he wears blue jeans and a comic book T-shirt, and frantically types something into his laptop. He pauses and smiles before hitting "enter" like it's a trigger.=Roleplaying: He speaks in geeky pop-culture references and in-jokes.=Personality: He's cocky, self-centered, and driven, but knows his limits. =Motivation: He gets his kicks breaking into things nobody else can.=Background: A computer whiz kid, Tommy graduated high school at 14. While still a juvenile, he was kicked out of three colleges for hacking. Arrested for attempting to hack the NSA, he decided that his career as an outlaw hacker was over. He launched a computer security testing business, becoming a white hat hacker and doing quite well at it-once he hired client service personnel to keep him away from the customers. He usually verbally abuses anyone who asks to speak to him personally, but it's just a test to see what they're made of. When not working, he frequents pop culture sites and starts flamewars on forums and message boards.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, business, eccentric, genius, scientist=944***=Natasha Shane=Patient Mediator="No, Mrs. Robinson, I don't think it's reasonable for you to demand your husband have his manhood removed as part of the divorce settlement."=Appearance: A full-figured woman with vivid blue green eyes and lustrous mahogany hair, Natasha dresses professionally in dark earth tones. The stress of her job often causes her to have small breakouts of acne.=Roleplaying: To Natasha, remaining calm and detached from difficult situations is all-important. She is constantly consensus building and trying to get others to come to a compromise, never committing to a single position. She speaks in low, soothing tones and encourages others to do the same.=Personality: Unbiased and open to all sides, Natasha tries to never make a decision of her own, but rather guides others towards making a mutually beneficial decision.=Motivation: Natasha enjoys the challenge of guiding two completely opposite parties into finding a mutually agreeable solution.=Background: A natural peacemaker, Natasha was defusing arguments and encouraging compromises between her headstrong and combative family members almost as soon as she could talk. Though her family eventually splintered, it only strengthened her desire to bring people together. Today, as a legal mediator for an up-and-coming law firm, she is encouraged by the good she sees from her work.=Traits: (MN) Charming, counselor=945***=Ricardo Espada=Pessimistic Private Detective="I hate going to weddings. It's hard to be happy for the couple when you know that it's probably going to end badly."=Appearance: Ricardo is in his mid-thirties, although he looks about 10 years older. He wears a long coat over a button-down shirt and khaki pants and sports a baseball cap when it's raining. He's almost constantly on his state-of-the-art phone, pretending to read messages when he's really taking video.=Roleplaying: He is quick and to the point, frontloading conversations with questions he wants answered. He knows that, as a private investigator, no one has to speak with him, so he tries to get as much information as he can before the inevitable brush-off.=Personality: Ricardo is a pessimist. He feels that everything in his life has gone badly, and spending most of his time gathering evidence for divorces has only reinforced his outlook. He still attends church regularly, as "the next world has to be better than this one."=Motivation: He believes that everyone deserves to know the truth, no matter how painful.=Background: Ricardo grew up in a rough neighborhood, his parents divorced when he was five, and his sister had a baby at 16. He had his share of beatings and gang peer pressure but managed to graduate high school, only to lack the funds for college. He found love only to see his marriage crumble. His only lasting success is his career as a private investigator.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, police, stealthy=946***=Alexandria Sengalis=Overzealous Blackmailer="I know that I said $50K, but if you want these photos it's now double that. Yeah, I'm raising the price. You know why? Because I can and because you are going to pay it."=Appearance: Alexandria is a young woman in her mid-twenties who wears designer clothing but never fancy shoes. She prefers simple canvas shoes with rubber soles, as they are easier to sneak around in.=Roleplaying: With any negotiation, she will agree on price and later on try to demand more. When someone refuses to give into her demands, Alexandria becomes arrogant and cocky, or throws a small fit.=Personality: She is boisterous and demanding, but it is all an act. She will cave when presented with a serious threat. Unfortunately for most people that she blackmails, they never see past the façade.=Motivation: She has expensive tastes and she enjoys snooping on people. She believes that she is not committing a real crime, because she never uses violence. She has, however, made many enemies who do not share her scruples.=Background: Alexandria learned at an early age that all people have secrets and that some people will pay handsomely when you threaten to expose their secrets. She blackmailed other children to ensure that she was invited to their birthday parties, she blackmailed professors to get good grades in college, and now she blackmails powerful people for cash. If you need dirt on someone, she's the person who has it.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, criminal, notorious, stealthy=947***=Mitch Westlake=Flippant Confidence Man="Hello. I am Dr. Lathrop, and I believe I have a reservation, though I'm a bit early. The penthouse would be fine. Does it have adult movies? Because that is a deal breaker." =Appearance: Mitch is a very plain-looking man in his mid-thirties. He has brown hair and a fair complexion. This bland "palette" gives Mitch the ability to look like many different people.=Roleplaying: While Mitch does a very good job picking up the mannerisms of the people he imitates, he is always pulling some kind of prank or telling some kind of joke; the more shocking the better. =Personality: He has a wicked sense of humor and loves making mischief for other people. Mitch does not take things too seriously.=Motivation: Mitch is not very motivated; he hustles to keep money in his pocket. He has no "master plan" but is envious of people who do.=Background: A smart man who keeps getting in trouble, Mitch is a dangerous combination: highly intelligent but unmotivated. With some drive and direction, Mitch might have been a talented actor. Instead, he uses his acting skills and keen mind to impersonate people and hustle them. Inside Mitch is decent guy; none of his hustles have ever done anyone harm. If approached with an offer, Mitch will take it if he can have some fun with it. =Traits: (PV) Criminal, dilettante, genius, humorous=948***=George Rey=Inquiring Foreman="In my town, when I left it, only kids your age wore beards."=Appearance: Short, wide, and all muscle, George has a square jaw which protrudes slightly, and a perpetual five-o'clock shadow. These features, coupled with heavy brows and prominent ears, give him a very simian appearance.=Roleplaying: George speaks quietly in a low voice with flawless diction, at odds with his Neanderthal appearance. Aware of his strength and bulk, he moves slowly and carefully to avoid clumsy accidents and frightening others.=Personality: Thirsty for all sorts of knowledge, George spends most of his money on reading material. Otherwise thrifty and simple, he is unassuming and would prefer to keep a low profile.=Motivation: George works hard to keep his place financially so that he can feed his reading habits.=Background: Born to a poverty-stricken family, George had to help by dropping out of high school and taking a construction job. His work ethic and keen mind made him a good candidate for further training, and as a foreman he finally had the financial stability he needed to support his desire for continuing education. Well known in both construction and academic circles, he's always willing to pull a few strings to get his hands on a rare or expensive book. History, philosophy, literature-he devours it all.=Traits: (MN) Academic, laborer, scholar=949***=Stark Vilma=Hard-Nosed Entrepreneur="I'm investing for the greatest rate of return, not in your people. Fire them all."=Appearance: He is a large, athletic man with stark white hair, a mustache, and steely blue eyes. Dressed in a dark hand-tailored suit with a gold watch and cufflinks, he checks the latest news on his cell phone.=Roleplaying: Stark dominates any conversation, seizing control and setting the tone. He's brusque and makes his points by stabbing down with his index finger.=Personality: Stark is accustomed to getting his way. He's pragmatic and decisive, working from a set of well-researched facts when choosing investments. He's not averse to following his instincts, however; he's so wealthy there's typically little personal risk involved. He recognizes a good investment and generously rewards those who succeed.=Motivation: Stark thinks about little but maximizing his profits. He is driven to success at any cost and doesn't like it when people get in his way.=Background: He's not a people person. He was born into a position of power and craves ever more. The thrill of acquiring power is what keeps him going; Stark will never be truly satisfied. Money is disposable, but he doesn't have a history of being careless with it. A short-term loss typically is recouped as part of a long-term plan. The more unobtainable something is to Stark, the more he craves it-including individuals.=Traits: (DM) Business, power hungry, wealthy, white collar=950***=Dag Gunnarson=Wealthy Philanthropist="All it takes is one great idea and-boom!-hula skirts and Mai Tais! Beats the hell out of sweating in a cubicle all day! So what do you need?"=Appearance: Dag is a blond-haired man with a tanned, well-muscled body. He wears mirrored sunglasses and usually smells like coconut oil. He is always on his phone or tablet computer, checking emails, texting, and taking calls. =Roleplaying: He is confident, always bragging about his accomplishments and lifestyle. He sometimes complains that things are too easy, but no one is fooled.=Personality: He is proud of how much he's accomplished in his short life. Unfortunately, he sometimes forgets that his serendipitous combination of genius and luck can't happen to everyone, and therefore sees many people as lazy or underachieving.=Motivation: Now that he's wealthy, Dag is a philanthropist. He sponsors people that are doing good works. He won't get his own hands dirty, though.=Background: Dag was a middling student in school until he had that one great idea in his early twenties. That one idea completely transformed his life, and he is now filthy rich with his 30th birthday still years away. After traveling the world and enjoying everything he ever wanted to do, Dag turned to philanthropy. He now uses his wealth to help others to do great things. He still enjoys a jet-setting lifestyle; he just feels better about living it.=Traits: (WC) Dilettante, wealthy=951***=Phoenix Armiger=Callous Arms Dealer="Buy the guns or don't, I couldn't care less. Those rebels aren't going to shoot themselves, though."=Appearance: With freckles, red hair, and a wide, open face, Phoenix looks like her last name should be "Moonbeam." So, she ties her hair back, binds her breasts, never takes off her sunglasses, and wears men's bespoke suits.=Roleplaying: Phoenix has a huge chip on her shoulder, and she loves to share it with others.=Personality: Saddled with the name "Phoenix" by her hippie peacenik parents, she grew up and became an arms dealer to spite them. They wanted Phoenix to believe in free love, so she decided to believe in free bullets instead. She made herself callous and uncaring-although deep down, she's more conflicted about her profession than she lets on.=Motivation: Phoenix wants to prove that she's the tough, uncaring badass she appears to be.=Background: Raised by hippies, Phoenix took teenage rebellion a bit too far: She thought of what she could that her parents would hate most, settled on becoming an arms dealer-and then actually did it. She started out working with another arms dealer, but after a few years she took over his organization from the inside, had him killed, and was instantly propelled into the highest levels of the underworld. What she needs most is friends (preferably unscrupulous ones) who she can trust-a resource that's been in short supply thus far.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, merchant=952***=Marie LeFleur=Vodou Priestess="You come here with the same pale skin and cheap suit as the man who killed my Maman, and you say you need me? Cher, this gonna cost you."=Appearance: An old Caribbean lady in a colorful dress and hat, she sits on the front porch of an old house, drinking iced coffee.=Roleplaying: Her sing-song accent and speech patterns are reminiscent of the Caribbean.=Personality: She is amused by much of what goes on, but can be dead serious when the situation demands it.=Motivation: She serves both the Loa and her people, but still holds a grudge over her mother's death.=Background: Born in Haiti and raised partially in and around New Orleans, she was brought up to be a Mambo, or a Vodou priestess. Her mother was the center of her life, until the night when a group of men in suits and white hoods rode up and shot her on her front porch. Marie knows on some level that her mother's time had come, but she still holds a grudge over it, and takes it out bit by bit on any city folk. She is willing to help anyone who needs it, if they seem worthy and honor the Loa and her, but the price of her advice and assistance definitely follows a sliding scale. =Traits: (KS) Ancient, counselor, eccentric, impoverished, leader, magical, mysterious, occult, primal=953***=Heather Wolson=Tough Mechanic="Look, I don't like your attitude and I'm the only one around these parts that can fix your truck. So if you don't shape up, you're gonna be towing this thing outta here."=Appearance: Heather is of average height and full of lean muscle, with wavy blond hair. She is very attractive, but takes steps to hide her looks by staying unkempt and covered in grease stains.=Roleplaying: She treats people honestly and never lies. She is often seen with a wrench in her belt and rarely stops chewing gum while talking to people.=Personality: Heather is anything but demure, but this only helps her keep up with the guys. She won't change her behavior for anyone or any situation and has a quick temper.=Motivation: She just wants to do well at her job and be treated with respect. She can't stand to see someone ostracized and gets into fights protecting people who need it.=Background: Tough and callous, Heather tells it like it is and won't bow down for anyone. She was raised by her father, a mechanic and a single parent, and wanted to follow in his footsteps. She never really cared that she didn't have a maternal figure and was always more interested in cars and trucks than clothing and dolls. When she grew up and moved to the city, she found she had to toughen up to fit in. She toughened up, and did it with gusto.=Traits: (JA) Beautiful, business, crafter, laborer=954***=Rachonda Vale=Caring Teacher="I'm here to help these kids. But you know what? Every day, they help me more by helping recover what I lost, which is faith in other people."=Appearance: She favors light, breezy tops in solid bright colors, dark slacks, and high heels. Her dark hair is cut fairly short, giving her a more youthful, approachable appearance.=Roleplaying: She likes to stake out a tough pose, arms crossed over her chest, then break into a wide, disarming smile.=Personality: She's tough and insists on an orderly classroom. She's faced the sharks of the corporate world and the most demanding law professors-she can stay calm in the face of whatever the kids and neighborhood can throw at her. =Motivation: She wants to help kids who get in trouble because of their circumstances while restoring her own sense of justice.=Background: She was a top-flight corporate legal eagle who got tired of representing clients whose only aim was to use the law to justify their greedy actions. She gave that up to be a teacher in an inner-city neighborhood. She came from similar circumstances, so she has no illusions about the challenges. But she is determined, willing to help anyone else who is like-minded, and now has a better sense of self-worth than at any other time in her life.=Traits: (TT) Academic, counselor, white collar=955***=Zora DeMille=Troubled FBI Agent="Two shooters, one from over here. See any shell casings? Real pros."=Appearance: She wears a dark blue business suit with pants, pumps, and a government-issued Smith & Wesson at her side. Her black hair is pulled back in a ponytail. She wears little makeup, favoring her darker complexion and exotic appearance.=Roleplaying: Zora frowns when she is suspicious-which is often-and quietly pokes and prods into things that aren't her business. She'll asking leading questions with an accusatory tone. She has a habit of resting her hand on her sidearm when upset.=Personality: She's a no-nonsense FBI agent with a checkered past, and she struggles to find ways to relieve her constant stress. With so many dark secrets in her closet, she's understandably jumpy and unwilling to open up to others. Much of the pressure she feels is due to her personal demons.=Motivation: Zora is focused on trying to prove that she's not a screw-up. She's dedicated to not losing another partner in the field.=Background: Her parents were illegal immigrants, something that Zora dealt with before joining the FBI. She focused on narcotic investigation and enforcement; her Brazilian background made her a frequent undercover operative. This led to casual drug use on assignment, which she still struggles with today. Her last drug bust went bad, and, unable to risk breaking cover, she watched as her partner was tortured to death in front of her.=Traits: (DM) Mysterious, police=956***=Elyn Braverman=Drug-Dealing EMT="Oops, that morphine slipped right out of my hand and into your pocket. That'll be $700."=Appearance: Long shifts and late nights show in Elyn's face. She has dark circles under her eyes, is always wearing yesterday's clothes, and has a slightly haunted look about her.=Roleplaying: She chews spearmint gum constantly and compulsively, saying it calms her nerves.=Personality: Elyn is nervous, twitchy, and perpetually out of sorts-except when she's on a call or dealing with a patient. Then, she's all business, with a warm bedside manner and a calm demeanor. She feels trapped by her gambling problem, but refuses to acknowledge that it's an addiction-and she's positive she's just one good night away from paying off her debts.=Motivation: She wants to avoid dealing with her problems, which entails making enough money to keep them at bay.=Background: Elyn has a good job as an EMT for a local ambulance company, but she also has a crippling gambling addiction and the debts to prove it. To keep her bookies at bay, she slings prescription drugs on the side. Unfortunately, she's her own worst enemy: She makes enough as a drug dealer to keep gambling, but she's a terrible gambler. PCs who can keep her out of the casino, gainfully employed, and help with her debts will earn a steadfast friend with loose morals and expert medical skills-plus any medication they might need, of course.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, medic=957***=Hatay al-Sakkâkî=Lustful Warrior  ="My squad will cover the northern exits; at 2202 we'll push here and here. Let's see them escape that."=Appearance: Hatay is a little over six feet tall, powerfully built, and thickly muscled. A neatly trimmed black beard emphasizes his strong jaw and dancing blue eyes.=Roleplaying: He is a warrior first, checking entrances when he moves into a room, and preparing escape plans. Discussing a mission, he is no nonsense, plainly laying out the facts. Women throw him off; he either retreats to stiff formality-though his eyes continue to trace and undress them-or he begins setting up an evening of pleasure.=Personality: Hatay is deeply religious, and views his military and security training as an extension of his calling. He performs his Salah with fervency and devotion-but remains challenged by lust.=Motivation: He is loyal to his imam and the great task he's been set.=Background: Hatay trained as a warrior, versed in traditional as well as modern tactics and weaponry. His faction was suppressed in Turkey; their "extreme" devotion conflicted with the modern state. Steadfast, he refused to abandon his faith, becoming famous during the trial that resulted in his exile. His imam told him that he would be called to guard the rightful caliph one day, which sustains him. He travels the world looking for the hidden caliph, fighting to remain true to his task despite the temptations of women.=Traits: (SM) Famous, religious, warrior=958***=Ashley Morgan=Directionless Protester="Save the...um wait, what are we saving this week?"=Appearance: Tall and runway-model thin, Ashley has flaming red hair and bright green eyes. She is always dressed impeccably in this year's hottest fashions, even at Greenpeace rallies and the like. She carries herself with an air of self-assurance and has a fearsome gaze.=Roleplaying: Ashley is a member of the upper crust of society and, aside from her passionate ideological stands, behaves carefully so as to not scandalize those close to her. She speaks with perfect grammar and manners, but knows how to verbally flay someone as only a socialite can.=Personality: Strong-willed and always confident, Ashley is used to giving orders and having them obeyed. Though her heart is in the right place, her many commitments stretch her time and energy thin and her zealotry for her causes tend to make her close personal friends few and far between.=Motivation: Ashley wants to save the world, one cause at a time.=Background: Married young as the trophy wife of a powerful businessman, Ashley occupies her time while he is away on business by using some of his fortune to support all of her save-the-world causes. Save the Whales, Save the Rainforest, Greenpeace, Save a Barn, Stop World Hunger...you name it, she will campaign for it.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, dilettante, eccentric, wealthy, zealot=959***=Rosyln Kale=Gullible Benefactor="So you need the money to cover a charter flight, guides, and some money to bribe local officials? You say this is a good cause? Let me get my check book."=Appearance: An attractive woman in her mid-thirties, Rosyln has a toned body with a few extra curves. She has long, beautiful black hair she wears over her shoulders. She always dresses in the latest fashion trend.=Roleplaying: She is always seen with a water bottle in hand, and drinks constantly. She takes the stairs and walks as much as she can. She is a fast walker and a fast talker.=Personality: Rosyln is easily swayed by popular opinion, a good argument, or a passing trend. She is always excited when something new comes to her attention. =Motivation: She likes to feel as if she is on the cutting edge by investing her attention, and money, in the things she finds interesting.=Background: Rosyln comes from second-generation money, and has lived a privileged life of private schools and country clubs. She graduated college and created a foundation where she could use her family's money to help people. Over the years, her foundation has given her clout and a number of political and corporate connections. The foundation has funded numerous expeditions, rescues, and retrievals. Those in the know are aware of Rosyln's impressionable nature and seek her out when funding is required.=Traits: (PV) Beautiful, political, wealthy, white collar=960***=Matty Hurkins, Esquire=Pessimistic Lawyer="We'll win the trial, but the judge's decision will just be overturned when the case gets appealed. You just can't catch a break in this town."=Appearance: A short, middle-aged man wearing an outdated suit, he smells of cheap bourbon.=Roleplaying: Matty points out the worst possible outcome for every situation. Even if the current situation is positive, he will still predict a dark future to come.=Personality: He's unmotivated, despite having built a law practice all by himself. He drinks not to get drunk, but to self-medicate his depression. He is slowly wasting away.=Motivation: He has no goals. His life is miserable. In an odd way, he has used this to his advantage. In his mind, he has nothing to lose, and that means he can take risks that others would avoid.=Background: Matty's parents demanded that he get the highest grades possible in school. Then they demanded that he be accepted into the finest university, then law school, and then he had to join a reputable law firm. Eventually his parents passed away, and Matty finally had to choose his own direction in life. He realized he had no idea what he wanted, so, by default, he started his own law firm. His clients vary from local businesses to hardened criminals, and, despite his terrible attitude, he's still an amazing lawyer.=Traits: (PB) Counselor, notorious=961***=Howard Reyes=Unfortunate Field Anthropologist="Anthropology is a desk job! I'm not supposed to be out here in the field being shot at. How did I let you talk me into this?"=Appearance: Small and meek, Howard's horn-rimmed glasses and skinny frame only accentuate the "awkward scholar" stereotype he fits into so well.=Roleplaying: Howard bemoans his fate whenever he gets pulled into field work, but once something of academic interest is placed before him, he gets lost in intellectual joy.=Personality: Bookish and quiet, Howard is fundamentally an academic bookworm. He can get lost in thought easily and never seeks out anything dangerous or exciting.=Motivation: Howard only wants to sit around and study ancient cultures, but his wide field of expertise and grasp of ancient history makes him in demand for many expeditions. He always seeks to finish them quickly and get back to desk work, but secretly revels in the excitement and thrills.=Background: Studying ancient civilizations seemed like the perfect sedate life for young Howard, but little did he know it would lead him into a life of perpetual adventure. Having the right mix of archaic knowledge and quick wits makes him perfect for field work, and the university he works at often sends him out to the field in order to get the most benefit out of him. Oddly, these field missions usually find Howard's teams being chased by angry natives, hindered by black market dealers, or pursued by ancient monsters.=Traits: (JA) Academic, genius, scholar=962***=Venvena Espinosa=Unconventional Humanitarian Worker="I'm making a difference. But it's the patients who are the real heroes. My sacrifice is nothing compared to their courage and dignity."=Appearance: She's a caramel-skinned 30-something woman with straight black hair pulled back in a pony tail. She stands about five feet tall and wears beige field clothes and work boots beneath a bright white physician's coat. The organization's logo is proudly emblazoned on the front. Because her left leg is lame, she walks with a stainless steel medical crutch.=Roleplaying: She has a beautiful singing voice, and she often hums or sings to patients as part of her bedside manner.=Personality: She is loving and caring, but also smart and resilient. She is capable of continuing her work with compassion despite the emotional toll.=Motivation: She couldn't conform to restrictions required by insurers when treating HIV/AIDS patients in the U.S., so she joined a global humanitarian organization to provide treatment in regions ravaged by the disease.=Background: Her leg was crushed in an auto accident back in high school. During her recovery, she decided to become a physician. Later, she started to specialize in HIV/AIDS treatment. Because of her organization's neutral stance, she can't provide assistance to any political activity, but anyone working to help improve a situation will receive her help.=Traits: (TT) Medic, saintly=963***=Alan Han=Obsessive Hotel Manager="We'll assign you another suite if you'd like, but I assure you that our walls are not ‘paper-thin.' Please accept this voucher for a complimentary dinner as compensation for your inconvenience."=Appearance: Alan wears the blazer of a hotel manager over fashionable clothes. His hair is impeccably styled every morning before his shift. He keeps a cheery face all day long and exudes confidence.=Roleplaying: He is very calm and deferential. He remains cool and poised no matter what the problem. He reassures patrons that everything will be taken care of and sees to it personally.=Personality: Alan is a self-promoter. He's also a bit obsessive-compulsive, but it works in his line of business.=Motivation: He enjoys the finer things in life. His career not only helps pay for them but also keeps him in constant contact with high society.=Background: Alan was born into a working class family but desired more. He joined a hotel as a bellboy and quickly worked his way up the ladder. Eventually, he parlayed that career into a new position in the most posh hotel in town. He's now the hotel manager and controls day-to-day operations at the hotel. Alan has lost all of his youthful mannerisms and dialect and now speaks in the crisp tones of the elite. While he plays the role, he knows that he is merely rich, not wealthy, but he has many contacts in high society.=Traits: (WC) Charming, entertainment, white collar=964***=Dr. Fiona Watson=Reckless Addict="I got the bullet fragment out. You are going to need to change those bandages every couple of hours. I can't write you a prescription since I lost my license to practice, so you are on your own for pain killers. Speaking of which, want to get high?"=Appearance: She is gaunt, her hair needs to be washed, and her clothes are filthy. If her bare shoulder is seen, it has a long scar winding over it from back to front.=Roleplaying: She can function only when she has had her fix-otherwise she is so completely overcome by her addiction that she will ignore all other matters except getting high. Once her addiction is satisfied, she is a carefree person who doesn't want any trouble.=Personality: In the periods between being completely stoned and suffering from withdrawal, she is an extremely intelligent and insightful person.=Motivation: Fiona is a train wreck and she knows it. She stopped caring long ago, and now believes that if it feels good, just do it and damn the consequences.=Background: Dr. Watson was a surgeon at the forefront of triage and emergency room medicine. Then, she suffered a near-fatal injury to her shoulder as a passenger in a car crash. She was put on prescription pain killers and became addicted to them. Eventually she became a junkie, lost everything, and now serves as an underground doctor for criminals.=Traits: (PB) Criminal, eccentric, medic=965***=Larson Wills=Disabled Reporter="I literally am the squeaky wheel."=Appearance: He sits in a wheelchair wearing a blue turtleneck and charcoal slacks. His sandy blond hair is short-cropped and several days of stubble show on his face. A pair of reading glasses is perched on his nose. He jots notes in a small pad.=Roleplaying: Larson is used to stares due to his disability, but will ask pointed questions if someone's gaze lingers too long. He rocks his chair back and forth in thought and is quick with a joke, even at his own expense, to break the ice.=Personality: Larson refuses to use his disability as an excuse, and this decision empowers him. He's ruthless when chasing a story and looks for the softer, human side. A hopeless romantic, he's still quite the ladies' man and makes hearts throb.=Motivation: He's an ideal reporter, dedicated to finding a story and uncovering the truth. His moral compass points true north.=Background: A car accident damaged Larson's spine, taking his ability to walk. It's unsure if the story he was working on at the time-inner city prostitution and government kickbacks-may have had something to do with the vehicle that came out of nowhere. He's remained undaunted, returning to work and fighting the good fight. He's a skilled and witty writer and views his new situation as a positive change. Larson's finding that romantic relationships are much more difficult with the wheelchair around.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, beautiful, charming, white collar=966***=Devo Ted=Fanatic DJ="Good evening all you beautiful mutants!"=Appearance: Normally an unremarkable, portly middle-aged man with a receding hairline, at a gig Devo Ted sports a yellow T-shirt, dark glasses, and the classic Devo energy dome (the upside down red flowerpot hat).=Roleplaying: Ted is constantly moving, dancing to the music from his turntable, his portable music device, or his head. He approaches everything with over the top enthusiasm and a goofy sense of humor.=Personality: Fond of helping others through music and humor, Ted is the life of the party both personally and professionally. A people watcher, he is intently tied to the crowd and takes a guest not enjoying themselves as a personal challenge; he will do everything he can to improve their mood.=Motivation: Ted wants to help everyone relax and enjoy themselves.=Background: A popular radio personality and club DJ, Ted's earned his nickname with fanatical enthusiasm for ‘80s music, especially Devo. Due to his profession, Ted has contacts all over the entertainment industry and access to otherwise restricted areas. Because his thumb is always on the pulse of those around him, he often can't help but pick up information and connections within the press of the crowd that others would overlook, making him a valuable source of well-kept secrets.=Traits: (MN) Charming, eccentric, entertainment, humorous=967***=Dr. Amelia Schopenhauer=Gullible Parapsychologist="That flash of light on the moon-did you see it? The Grays are trying to communicate with us!"=Appearance: Amelia has small, close-set eyes, mousy brown hair, and wears gigantic glasses in oversized plastic frames. She wears a flannel shirt and overalls regardless of the season.=Roleplaying: Amelia speaks too quickly, constantly spouts crazy theories, and has the attention span of a caffeinated ferret.=Personality: If you told Amelia that her picture was next to the entry in the dictionary for "gullible," she'd go check. She believes every conspiracy theory she's ever heard, even the ones that conflict with each other.=Motivation: Amelia wants to prove to the world that aliens are real and Elvis is still alive.=Background: "Doctor" Schopenhauer has a mail-order doctorate in parapsychology, a complete collection of True Believer "Mysteries of the Infinite" books, and a stack of rejection letters from scientific journals. She'll pack up her van and drive 500 miles at the drop of a hat if she hears a report that aliens have landed in Liverpool. She believes that her sister was kidnapped by aliens when they were both children, despite her parents' continued insistence that she did not, in fact, ever have a sister. Amelia has a photographic memory and a bottomless appetite for all things paranormal and supernatural. If even 1% of her crackpot theories are true, she'd be an amazing ally for a group of intrepid investigators.=Traits: (MR) Academic, eccentric, humorous, scholar, scientist, zealot=968***=Edith Dalenka=Grandmotherly Munitions Expert="Oh my, yes, this is fascinating, dearies. Can you see how the rifling has been worn down at the muzzle? It's got a ring-gauge like a 50-year-old hooker, which means this trigger's been pulled more than a teenage boy's johnson."=Appearance: An older woman, dressed in a quaint flowered blouse, she examines weapons through reading glasses suspended on a pearl-encrusted chain. =Roleplaying: Her ability to switch between endearing little old lady and foul-mouthed weapons expert leaves even her friends shocked.=Personality: On the surface, she's the kind of lady who keeps multiple cats and takes tea in the afternoon. Beneath that lies the heart of a warrior, the brain of an expert, and the mouth of a sailor.=Motivation: She loves weapons, enjoys the company of adventurous sorts, and hates any kind of totalitarian government.=Background: Born in post-WWII Czechoslovakia, she showed an early aptitude with mechanical devices and became a munitions inspector. When her younger sister was killed by an incompetent but politically-connected doctor, she joined a revolutionary cell. She hid her actions well, and sabotaged both weapons and ammunition over the years. A close call led to her escape and her parents' arrest and subsequent death. She continued her fight against communism, working for anyone who would fund her. When communism fell, she took a job as a curator for an arms museum, where she is regularly consulted by local and federal police.=Traits: (KS) Academic, eccentric, genius, scholar, warrior=969***=Mr. Oren Seversen=Friendly Hospital Volunteer="May I help you? No need to fret, it's easy to get turned around in here. I've helped more than a few doctors get where they're going, so there's no need to be shy about asking for help."=Appearance: Oren is a senior citizen, mostly bald with white hair at the temples, but still fit and trim. He wears a polo shirt with plaid golf pants and clean white tennis shoes.  =Roleplaying: He keeps a golf pencil tucked behind his left ear and his pass key is looped to an elastic spring at his belt.=Personality: He's friendly and respectful, quick to spot new visitors to the hospital.=Motivation: He is quick to offer his assistance to visitors, providing directions or guiding them through the maze of corridors himself. He finds being a volunteer a more fulfilling way to spend his retirement than anything else he's tried.=Background: First he spent his retirement going fishing, then playing golf, and finally attending sporting events. All were fine activities-in moderation-but the former factory executive wanted to do more to help people. Then he became a volunteer at the hospital. Used to finding his way amid the maze of large manufacturing buildings, he soon became the "go-to" guy for directions and information. He now knows every nook and cranny of the medical center complex.=Traits: (TT) Counselor, medic=970***=Ingrid Liller=Passionate Police Chief="I will not have this city held hostage by the Torliono family. I am approving overtime for all departments. Now get me my car; we are going out there as well. I want to put the cuffs on them when they are busted."=Appearance: Ingrid is a thin woman in her late fifties. Just over 5' tall, she is thin and wiry with salt and pepper hair that she wears in a bun.=Roleplaying: She has a strong stare, and is prone to outbursts of frustration and anger. Her face turns red when she gets angry.=Personality: Ingrid is a force of personality. Her emotions run hot and it is clear to everyone what she is feeling.=Motivation: She has a strong passion for her city and a strong hatred for crime. Her frustration with the rising crime has caused her to turn her back on some of her officers' more radical solutions.=Background: In the police academy, Ingrid met her future husband. They dated as patrol officers and were married before they became detectives. Things were looking promising until an organized crime family killed her husband while undercover. After that time, Ingrid dedicated herself to fighting crime and getting justice for her husband. Her crusade landed her as Chief and now she is in a position to find justice, but she thinks that vengeance might better.=Traits: (PV) Focal, police, white collar=971***=Dan Wingler=Retired Thief="Yeah, the SecTec-130 is a nice system. The problem is that most companies don't push the firmware upgrade that prevents you from shorting the alarm circuit with a stun gun. Not that I would know, I just fix computers."=Appearance: Dan is in his late thirties, with the some gray mixed into his black hair. He is overweight, carrying most of his weight around his middle. He has a mullet he wears in a ponytail.=Roleplaying: He walks with a slight limp. He runs his hand through his hair while he talks or thinks. =Personality: While Dan is quite knowledgeable about electronics, he is a terrible thief. He has come to peace with this recently and can make some jokes about being a bad thief.=Motivation: He would love to score some easy money using his knowledge of electronics.=Background: Growing up with a knack for electronics and computers, the guys in Dan's neighborhood tried to use him to help them break into some houses and stores. The first few jobs went fine, but after a botched job left him electrocuted with a broken leg, arrested, and eventually on probation, Dan decided to get out of the game. Today, he works at a big box electronics store repairing computers. He still keeps up on the electronics of the trade but is hesitant to go back into the field.=Traits: (PV) Criminal, crafter, impoverished=972***=Lance Morel=Money Launderer="Be glad I owe you one, or else I'd have taken this information elsewhere."=Appearance: Lance only wears tasteful and expensive suits tailor-made to his frame. His brown hair is slicked back and his face is clean-shaven.=Roleplaying: Lance is the epitome of style and sophistication, always smooth and controlled. His face rarely betrays any emotion that he doesn't want it to, and he always has a bit of a devilish smirk.=Personality: He remains cool and collected at almost all times, but can get a bit agitated when things are falling apart. It takes a lot to get him to this point, but he is always willing to screw someone over to get himself out of a bad situation.=Motivation: Lance enjoys the finer things in life and hates common criminality. He engages in criminal business to keep in the green, but often provides information to keep himself or his adopted city safe from destabilizing elements like common gangs or lethal drug runners.=Background: Lance is an information broker and money launderer. He knows the who, what, when, where, and how of most criminal operations going on. His chief business is laundering money, but sometimes he'll help people by providing information. He realizes that many people don't want their information out there, so he never rats on clients (at least not the ones he likes). Lance tends to provide information when it takes someone bad out of business.=Traits: (JA) Business, criminal, focal, stealthy, wealthy, white collar=973***=Chester King=Skilled Humanitarian="We'll need to lay the pipeline here, and that won't be easy, but once we're done, this village's fields will have water. I didn't travel halfway around the world for nothing, so hand me one of those shovels."=Appearance: A medium-sized man, Chester's dark complexion is offset by white, woolly hair that he wears pulled back into a pony tail.=Roleplaying: He hums or whistles his favorite classic rock and Motown tunes while working.=Personality: Chester studies problems intensely, develops solutions with the input of others, and gets straight to work once a decision has been made. He doesn't make a promise that he cannot keep.=Motivation: Chester is a person of great faith, and he believes that it is his spiritual duty to help the poorest of people on the globe.=Background: His father was a doctor and his mother was a lawyer, and both were expecting Chester to attend either medical or law school after college. They were shocked and disappointed when Chester joined the Peace Corps instead. Eventually, they accepted his decision as it became clear that the work Chester was doing was helping people in the greatest need. He has seen the world in all of its beauty, and he has witnessed humanity at both its best and its worst. As long as he has a tune playing in his head and work to keep his hands busy, Chester is a happy man.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, focal, laborer, religious=974***=Faith=Free-Spirited Martyr="Baby, I hope that tap was just foreplay, because if that's all you've got I'm going to be very disappointed!"=Appearance: Faith wears a pale blue nurse's smock with a stethoscope around her neck and carries a clipboard in her hands. Her long black hair is tightly pulled back into a bun and her hazel eyes are framed with heavy makeup. Next to her left eye is a tattoo of a single ruby tear running down her cheek. She wears a collar with a silver ring on the front.=Roleplaying: She's a loud talker who is blunt and speaks her mind. She's apt to start a fight for no other reason than to have something to do.=Personality: Faith doesn't like conversation; she prefers action. She jumps into any situation-usually helping people-with reckless abandon.=Motivation: Faith is devoted to helping others. She has a martyr complex and believes her role in life is to suffer for others. She's a masochist, and while she doesn't avoid bringing pain to those who deserve it, she certainly enjoys receiving it.=Background: Faith's early life on the street was one of hardship, drugs, and broken families. She escaped that life and educated herself, and now works as a nurse. Off duty, she goes to raves and is an unapologetic, swearing, punk rocker. She'll provide free medical care when appropriate and seeks to help others. She has two angel wings tattooed on her shoulder blades.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, aggressive, focal, medic=975***=Agatha Harcombe=Mysterious Museum Curator="I know why you are here. You seek answers to what really happened on campus last night. Fortunately, I may have something useful for you."=Appearance: A 30-something woman with long, straight brown hair and an elfin face, Agatha dresses rather conservatively and in old-fashioned clothes, although she also wears jewelry depicting arcane and religious symbols that no woman of society would've been caught dead wearing. =Roleplaying: She speaks with the authority of years, often referring to events in the present tense even though she couldn't possibly have been alive back then. She finds the strange and unusual rather easy to accept.=Personality: Agatha is a calm person with a quaint outlook on life that is reflected in her wardrobe and home décor. She is quite content to live alone, as she's never found anyone compatible enough to share her life. She is never depressed.=Motivation: Her motivations are mysterious, but she always seems willing to help.=Background: Agatha is an enigma. She runs an occult museum out of a Victorian mansion, and has an extensive library of occult tomes as well as several artifacts from around the world. She's willing to loan both to characters with occult-related problems. Agatha is well-versed in various forms of divination, including tarot, and is a medium. Some whisper that she's a vampire or witch; Agatha merely chuckles at the notion.=Traits: (WC) Ancient, magical, occult, scholar=976***=Dana Seth=Disconnected Therapist="You're only saying I'm rude because a bad relationship in your early childhood has left you unable to cope with authoritative criticism."=Appearance: A pudgy woman with prominent rosacea on her left cheek, Dana has a monochrome olive drab wardrobe, strawberry-blond hair that is most often pulled back into a bun, and an uncomfortably persistent, violating stare.=Roleplaying: Dana has few personal relationships, so she is most likely to fall back into a pattern of psychological analysis in conversation, asking questions about others' feelings or relating current events to past traumas. Used to dealing with dangerous or criminal individuals she is wary when conversing and often covers the same topics repeatedly.=Personality: Twisted from her lack of normal models of communication, Dana usually sees others as patients instead of people. She is precise and careful in her quest for knowledge, and will often catalog interesting interactions for future study.=Motivation: Dana wishes to further science's knowledge of the human mental condition by studying individuals with abnormal psyches.=Background: For years Dana has been the head physician at a psych hospital. In that time she has studied dozens of spectacular cases and read many more. She is a clear expert in the field of criminal psychosis and is an excellent resource for many law enforcement and medical organizations.=Traits: (MN) Academic, counselor, eccentric, genius=977***=Aleksandr Romanov=Loyal Bodyguard="For you, I handle this. For me, I do it bare-handed."=Appearance: This bodyguard's huge frame is almost as intimidating as his face. His stern eyes are surrounded by scars, and he has a broken nose and cauliflower ears.=Roleplaying: His strong Russian accent and simple speech patterns are easy to recognize.=Personality: His integrity is more important than anything else, including his life.=Motivation: He's devoted to the few friends that he trusts.=Background: A childhood of abuse over his last name taught Aleksandr that loyalty is a rare and valuable commodity, and that violence is oftentimes the only answer. When his parents left Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union, they started anew with almost nothing. His father was a soldier for a crime boss, whom he gave his life protecting. The criminal gave Aleksandr's mother a pittance for the loss of her husband. From this, Aleksandr learned that his loyalty must be given only to those deserving of it. Joining the Army, he became a decorated veteran, but was dishonorably discharged when he refused to turn on his commanding officer, who was baselessly accused of war crimes. As payment for his silence, he was hired by a security firm, and has been working on and off for them ever since. Recently, he has taken some time off to care for his cancer-stricken mother.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, military, warrior=978***=Middleton Walker, Jr.=Occult Scholar="Aha! If I transpose the Sumerian characters, I can read these runes. Let's see, ‘That is not dead which…'"=Appearance: Middleton looks like an Oxford professor 10 years older than he actually is-tweed coat with leather patches at the elbows, ivory pipe clamped between his teeth, wire-rimmed spectacles-the whole nine yards.=Roleplaying: Unlike the stereotypical scholar, Middleton is focused and not easily distracted. When he does something, he does it with his whole being.=Personality: Clever and quick-witted, Middleton could succeed at just about any profession if he wanted to, but he loves studying the occult. Sometimes his cleverness gets the best of him, and he solves a puzzle or decodes an ancient spell without considering the consequences.=Motivation: In the short term, Middleton wants to challenge his brain and uncover ancient truths. In the long term, he wants to find his father, who he believes is still alive.=Background: When his father, the famous occult investigator Middleton Walker, senior, disappeared while exploring an ancient cavern complex 15 years ago, Middleton became consumed by a need to find him. He mounted three expeditions to explore the caverns to no avail-so he decided to throw himself into his father's work instead. In time, he found himself fascinated by the occult, and he's since become a prominent scholar in his own right. He still searches for his father, but fresh leads have long since dried up.=Traits: (MR) Academic, occult, scholar=979***=Jason Briggs=Neighborhood Protector ="If you want my help, ditch the attitude before I shove it down your throat."=Appearance: Jason appears like any normal human, except for his long, ragged ears, mottled skin, and clawed fingers.=Roleplaying: Infected with the disease of vampirism in his mid-twenties, Jason is sensitive about his appearance and condition, but channels his feelings into anger instead of despair.=Personality: Angry and violent, Jason still holds to a strict moral code. He only unleashes his rage on those who deserve it.=Motivation: Jason protects the slum where he grew up. He tries to avoid killing when he needs his fix, seeking out only the parasites that make things worse for others.=Background: While Jason is a protector, he is no white knight and he doesn't have a delicate touch. When Jason was infected with the disease, he set about to get revenge, and this he did. The one who changed him died violently as a message to others of his kind. Rather than hide in the darkness and feed on the innocent, as other vampires do, Jason walks proudly in his neighborhood and beats up the drug dealers and pimps that infect it. Jason is feared by many in his neighborhood, even the innocent. Jason will help people who share similar goals, but he rarely acts as a team player or waits for plans to be executed fully.=Traits: (JA) Hideous, primal, magical, warrior=980***=Father Shamus O'Donnelly=Informed Priest="As usual, lads, you've been thinking too much..."=Appearance: A broken nose and bitten ear signal that this is no ordinary priest.=Roleplaying: His jokes and thick Irish accent somehow soften his blunt and outspoken opinions.=Personality: He's as straightforward and honest as can be.=Motivation: Sometimes a flock needs leading; sometimes it needs protecting.=Background: Father O'Donnelly led a long and colorful life before becoming a priest, and he draws on it when people seek him out for advice. He's seen and done things that would test anyone's sanity, and has come through largely unscathed. He knows that evil exists, how to recognize it, and how fight it. He also knows that there are limits to the Church's power, and that a group of outsiders or even unbelievers can accomplish much. Because of his history inside and outside the Church, Father O'Donnelly has access to a surprising number of resources, from holy relics to ancient texts. But his greatest asset for a group of adventurers is his advice on overcoming evil.=Traits: (KS) Counselor, eccentric, humorous, magical, occult, religious, scholar=981***=Dame Bettina Dutchwood=Charming Noble="Oh, how delightful! I do love a good yarn-take your time, and don't skip a single detail!"=Appearance: Dame Bettina is 73, but looks like she's in her late fifties. She has white hair, rosy cheeks, and a disarming smile, and she wears golden spectacles on a chain.=Roleplaying: She's lively, outgoing, and not a bit grandmotherly, with a penchant for slipping a tot of whiskey into her tea.=Personality: Charming, genial, and a fan of all of the trappings of royalty, Dame Bettina has a talent for ingratiating herself with people. Only her butler, Middlesworth, knows about her unscrupulous hobby: sponsoring criminal ventures. To everyone else, she's exactly as she appears: a consummate noblewoman with a fondness for Hemingway and Kipling.=Motivation: Dame Bettina wants to live vicariously through the adventurers she sponsors, which sometimes prompts her to tempt them into ever more dangerous expeditions.=Background: The scion of a wealthy English family, Dame Bettina has a thing for adventurers-the more Livingstone-like, the better. She likes to meet them, hear about their travels and escapades, and then take them under her wing, becoming a patron. As a patron, she has powerful political and social connections, deep coffers, and a blind spot you could drive a lorry through when it comes to illicit activities-as long as the crimes are committed in service of a noble adventure, of course.=Traits: (MR) Charming, eccentric, famous, royalty, wealthy=982***=Gregory Toffades=Soft-Spoken Scholar="This struggle is much like the dispute between the factions of Hamilton and Adams within the Federalist Party during Washington's second term."=Appearance: Gregory shops at Hot Topic, often wearing brown and black plaid pants and a contrasting flannel shirt. A well maintained beard, pale skin, and shoulder-length brown hair round out his look.=Roleplaying: Direct but soft-spoken, Greg's not afraid to open up any topic-but he backpedals when he senses discomfort. He tends towards academic phrasings and political correctness, though rarely corrects others.=Personality: Gregory is so unassuming that he's easily forgotten or overlooked. He picks a new tack rather than ramping up the energy or shouting to convey his point.=Motivation: Being a good citizen is the highest compliment Greg can imagine. That so few people care, or spend any effort on keeping current with events, or have any historical context to put the events in, worries him. Not having a girlfriend keeps him focused on big-picture issues, as does his new fellowship.=Background: Greg's studies alerted him to the crisis democracy faces-so few well informed voters make lies and distortion more effective tactics than doing the right thing. His studies continue, but he's working hard to develop alternate information streams-locally at first, with hopes to scale up to state and national politics.=Traits: (SM) Mysterious, political, scholar=983***=Professor Zelda Jones=Slightly Mad Scientist="IT WILL WORK! DON'T TELL ME NOT TO YELL! NO, YOU CALM DOWN! MY STUN PEN WORKS FINE! SEE? YOU'RE ON THE GROUND, INCAPABLE OF MOVING, AREN'T YOU? NOW ADMIT THAT IT WORKS! Oh wait, you can't speak at the moment."=Appearance: Her shoulder length black hair has a streak of fiery orange on one side. Her glasses have chic, modern frames, and she likes to wear torn blue jeans and vintage T-shirts.=Roleplaying: She flies off the handle for any perceived slight, and she will throw things around her office while having one of her tantrums-except when her girlfriend Betty is present, because Zelda tries very hard to be a better person around her.=Personality: She is very ill-tempered and cannot take any form of criticism from anyone other than her girlfriend.=Motivation: Zelda wants to rebuild her career and make a comeback. The problem isn't with her work, however, it's with her personality.=Background: Zelda designed cutting-edge prototypes for the defense industry, but one of her designs failed miserably and injured several soldiers who tested it. The upper brass understood the risks with such projects and live tests. What they could not understand nor tolerate was Zelda calling them all warmongering idiots when they asked her to hand over her plans to one of her peers for a review. Needless to say, Zelda has yet to learn from her mistake.=Traits: (PB) Aggressive, eccentric, genius, impoverished, military, scientist=984***=Sarah Two Crows=Nature-Attuned Trail Guide="Shh. If you listen closely, you will hear the deer up ahead. We will take the south path so that we don't disturb them."=Appearance: Sarah is tall and has a light-brown skin tone and long, dark hair, which is part of her heritage as a Lenape.=Roleplaying: When she gets out and into nature, she is often talkative about the sights and sounds around her. When in the woods, she gets close to animals and asks them questions, seeming to get responses from them.=Personality: Sarah has a warm and friendly personality and is always willing to help people out. She gets very excited about things she likes, but can switch to quiet and thoughtful instantaneously.=Motivation: Sarah sees her job as a trail guide as a way to let people experience nature without ruining it.=Background: When Sarah was eight, she got lost in the woods and was not found for four years. She walked back into civilization and picked up right where she left off. She has always retained a bit of the wild in her, and told people she could talk to animals and hear the words on the wind. Though few believed her, she does have an uncanny ability to understand the woods around her.=Traits: (JA) Beautiful, child, primal, magical=985***=Arnav Goli=Forthright Reporter="Yes, you're right, I suppose. But what do you think is really happening here?"=Appearance: He is in his forties, with graying temples and dark skin. He makes a simple button-down shirt and slacks look well-dressed. He has an infectious smile.=Roleplaying: He's old-school, and always licks the tip of his pencil before jotting down notes in his notebook.=Personality: He is forthright in dealing with people. He never misrepresents himself. He never lets on when he knows people are lying to him-and he's excellent at perceiving when that happens.=Motivation: No matter what the daily assignment, he wants to tell that story as honestly and completely as he can. Well, as completely as one can in the 700 words his editor allows.=Background: He's had a lot of jobs over the years. After a stint in the Air Force, he sold insurance, then used cars, was an office manager for a dentist, and helped with an alderman's campaign. He knew he was good at communicating and dealing with people, so he became a newspaper reporter. Now he spends his days talking to people and telling their stories, though his current beat is on the activities, personalities, and government business of City Hall. His wife is an agricultural scientist. They have two children of their own, and are raising the orphaned child of his deceased brother.=Traits: (TT) Business, charming, white collar=986***=Corsico Valencia=Cautious Hitman="No, it doesn't feel right. I'll take him later, after I run through the plan again."=Appearance: Corsico is a broad-shouldered man with a buzzed head, wide-set eyes, and a handlebar mustache.=Roleplaying: He does everything slowly, never acts without a plan, and frustrates those around him by evaluating and reevaluating every option.=Personality: Corsico is meticulous, detail-oriented, and thorough. Without a plan, he's almost completely ineffectual, and he turns down jobs that don't fit his timetable and requirements. He has no qualms about killing people for money, reasoning that the more he gets paid, the more likely the target is a bad person.=Motivation: He wants to control every aspect of his life, something he couldn't do when he was held prisoner.=Background: Corsico can shoot the wings off a fly from a thousand yards, but despite his prodigious talent with a sniper rifle, he's excessively cautious about the tiniest details of every job he takes. He does everything in his power to lock down every single variable before taking his shot. An ex-special forces sniper, in the war he slipped up, got captured, and was held for 22 months under terrible conditions. After he escaped, he returned home a beaten and broken man, didn't reenlist, and slowly rebuilt his life as a private contractor. When the money wasn't what he'd hoped for, he turned to doing hits to make up the difference-and discovered his calling.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, military, stealthy, warrior=987***=Liliana Trupkin=Active Congresswoman="Old Sam may be a blowhard, but he'll deal. I'll call and clear the way."=Appearance: Liliana is short, with silver hair and wrinkles; still, she has clear blue eyes, and moves smoothly and without pain.=Roleplaying: Manners mark a conversation with Liliana; she remembers your name and proper address, and expects you to do the same. She's not afraid to talk frankly about power and its possessors; she's quite candid with her friends.=Personality: She has a bright spirit, still moving crisply with energy and interest. There's a world of things that need doing, and she's the woman to do them.=Motivation: Liliana was a woman of action, but age is slowing her. She feels accomplishment and reward for direct action, but mastered politics to accomplish more.=Background: Liliana grew up in 1950s America, well-loved and secure. She was raised to give of herself, joining the Peace Corps after college and living in rural Africa for more than a decade. She began her stint building clean irrigation; by the end, she had fortified the village and taught her friends aikido. She took the lessons home with her; she served in congress where she remained a friend to Africa, maintaining her contacts and ensuring a flow of humanitarian aid-and encouraging the U.S. to avoid treating with warlords. She retired from congress in the ‘90s to do good more directly, but still knows several congresspeople and their staff.=Traits: (SM) Ancient, famous, leader, political, warrior, white collar=988***=Father Alan MacKenzie=Obsessive-Compulsive Priest="I have a prayer for just this occasion! It dates back to Pope Alexander's library of Queen Christina!"=Appearance: Paunchy and middle-aged, Father MacKenzie's fleecy hair is thin and graying. He constantly fidgets, plucking at imaginary lint and straightening stray bits of his vestments.=Roleplaying: Father MacKenzie constantly mutters short prayers to patron saints applicable to his current action. He has further specific rituals for most actions, and becomes agitated if any of them are interrupted or others do not comply with them.=Personality: Genuinely devoted to his religion and to helping people, Father MacKenzie does his best to help others with their problems. He is aware of the difficulties his condition causes, and considers it a test of his faith.=Motivation: Father MacKenzie enjoys study and lecture, two of few processes that are helped rather than hindered by his slavish adherence to detail.=Background: His obsessive compulsive disorder made a non-rigidly defined life uncomfortable for Alan, so he endured years of seminary to get to the rigidly regimented life of a religious scholar. Alan found he greatly enjoyed not only the established routine but also the work itself; he considers his position a gift from a benevolent god and works even harder to share his blessing with others. He is one of the church's most accurate scholars. Though he doesn't work particularly quickly, he is extremely thorough and rarely makes errors.=Traits: (MN) Academic, eccentric, genius, religious, scholar, zealot=989***=Clayton Barnaby=Experienced Vampire Hunter="Look, kid, you're too soft for this war. Chalk up all the weird crap you've seen so far to a bad dream and go home. You don't want this life."=Appearance: Clayton's muscular frame is covered by a layer of soft fat and wrinkled skin. His face is leather-tough, and a scar on his right temple above his useless, milk-white eye gives him an unsettling appearance.=Roleplaying: He squints and grimaces a lot. When he fights, he unleashes a savagery that rivals the things he hunts. In order to gain Clayton's respect, one must prove oneself to him.=Personality: Clayton is a true salt-of-the-earth guy who doesn't warm up to strangers.=Motivation: He has children and grandchildren that he fights to protect. He wants to make the world safe for innocent people who don't know the true horrors all around them.=Background: Life in the army never prepared Clayton for what he encountered on that evacuation mission. When he saw that thing drinking the blood of the platoon members he was supposed to be rescuing, he realized that nightmares were real. When he was released from the mental hospital, he began researching the monster, and discovered how real such things are. Clayton was forced to leave his wife and kids to join the front line of the fight against what lies in the dark.=Traits: (JA) Adventurer, military, pilot=990***=Debbie Kwan=Unassuming Artist="I sketch what I see. Sometimes I just see things about people that belong in the picture. I don't know how; it's just a muse."=Appearance: Debbie is an unassuming young artist. She can frequently be found sketching a person or a landscape. She usually keeps her long black hair pulled back and wears baggy clothes with pockets full of colored pencils and other media. =Roleplaying: She prefers to speak through her art. She's quiet and prone to giving terse answers to questions, especially if she is in the middle of sketching. She bursts out laughing if someone "reveals" something that Debbie has already captured in a sketch.=Personality: Debbie is an excellent judge of character and a master at the cold read. This sometimes depresses her, as people rarely reveal who they truly are, always preferring to wear masks. Inwardly Debbie struggles with her own demons and whether someone will discover her mask.=Motivation: She lives to sketch and learn about her subjects.=Background: Debbie had an abusive childhood. She retreated into her sketches and, after leaving home for foster care, discovered that she could see things about people that they tried to hide. These things always revealed themselves in her sketches. When Debbie makes friends, she's willing to help them in her own way. Her sketches always seem to have an appropriate clue to aid the PCs in their investigations.=Traits: (WC) Artist, magical=991***=Ian Zurn=Daunting Mercenary ="So it's going to go down like this, huh? That's fine. That is exactly what I get paid to do. Time to earn my money."=Appearance: Ian is a middle-aged man with a thick neck, thick arms, and thick legs. His head is shaved, but he has a full beard. He has a pair of tribal tattoos, one on each arm. He favors jeans, T-shirts, and his worn leather jacket.=Roleplaying: Ian stands with the posture of someone who has combat training. When he fights he likes to use his elbows and knees.=Personality: Ian is a scary guy. The way he talks, the way walks, and even how he opens his beer says that Ian can kick some ass. In truth, he is a rather nice guy with a good sense of humor, but he rarely lets that show.=Motivation: Ian is a man who truly enjoys his work. He loves getting into fights and being in danger; it's when he feels most alive.=Background: Ian graduated high school and enlisted in the Army. He eventually transferred into a Special Forces unit. In the Special Forces, he has seen time in nearly every major theater of operation. He received several medals and commendations during his tours. When he retired from the military, he was recruited into private security. Ian has worked alone and with groups; he is always up for another job, especially one that involves some fighting.=Traits: (PV) Military, warrior=992***=Wyland Samson=Nervous Chemist="Ahh! Don't sneak up on me like that. I wasn't doing anything, just cleaning up some lab supplies. What do you want anyways?"=Appearance: Shaggy brown hair and a scruffy beard surround Wyland's face. He has a goofy smile (when he smiles) and a nervous twitch.=Roleplaying: Wyland always seems nervous or on edge. His glasses constantly slip down his nose and he is often scratching his short, brown beard. When he talks, it is always fast and hard to follow.=Personality: Whether it is fear of his circumstances or the lingering effects of the drug he was force-fed by the Mafia, Wyland is always a bit on edge. He is quick to jump to any task he is given, seeming almost afraid of anyone giving him orders.=Motivation: Wyland is a survivor, even if that means being a cringing coward. He just wants to live to see a better time, but he doesn't know how to get himself there.=Background: Creating designer drugs was never what Wyland planned to do with his life. His gambling problem threw him into the clutches of the mob, and he was forced to create designer drugs to keep his family safe. When his wife and sons were killed by a rival gang, he went legit. He tries to put his knowledge of chemistry and the criminal landscape to use helping the authorities with criminal investigations, if he can keep clean long enough to do it.=Traits: (JA) Abhorrent, crafter, criminal, medic, power hungry=993***=Humberto Amate Perez=Handsome Cowboy="...then seven miles through the canyons, and you're in Laredo. We should start just after midnight. Tequila while we wait?"=Appearance: Dark brown eyes, a muscular build, and a trimmed beard top a well-toned body. Humberto moves with full confidence, setting women to swooning.=Roleplaying: Humberto swaggers, confident that every female eye is drawn to him. He politely doffs his cowboy hat, often knocking dust loose by tapping it against his boot.=Personality: Confident and direct, Humberto shares smoldering glances with women and is a man's man. He eagerly takes up challenges and dares, and is furious if his masculinity is challenged.=Motivation: Though ranching doesn't pay very well, he grew up on horseback and enjoys moving in concert with a well-trained horse. He loves the respect he's given as a cowboy.=Background: Humberto was raised by his mother until he was seven, when his father intervened and began making a man out of him. He learned ranching-and later smuggling-from his dad. While he prefers a rancher's life, he's very good at navigating the border, and is paid well for helping the cartels move their goods and people. PCs might find his smuggling skills useful, be hired for their local knowledge, or develop Humberto as a contact to keep tabs on the underworld.=Traits: (SM) Beautiful, criminal, outdoorsman=994***=John Browning=Budget Detective="You'd better let me go first and do all the talking. I have experience in this."=Appearance: John is a large, well-built man with ragged brown hair tucked under a Tigers baseball cap. He wears a loud Hawaiian shirt, jeans, and running shoes. He has a bushy mustache and pale blue eyes. His torn denim jacket conceals a shoulder holster.=Roleplaying: John is quick with a smile and outgoing, with a firm handshake. He nods in thought and will grunt his approval. Any response begins with, "Well…"=Personality: He fancies himself an accomplished detective and ladies' man but in reality is neither. John will turn the smallest coincidence into a full-blown conspiracy. He's riddled with insecurities and flutters from goal to goal.=Motivation: He's eager to draw a paycheck and is looking for affirmation of his life choices.=Background: John grew up in an average Midwestern family, and then moved to the "big city" to join the police force. At least, that's what he tells everyone. In truth, John never made it on the force and instead got his private detective's license. He mostly does stakeouts and the occasional background check. He sees himself as a PI cast in the mold of those seen on TV, but in reality, he mostly drinks a lot of coffee and takes photographs from his car. Recently he's been digging up dirt on political candidates, looking for their mysterious benefactors.=Traits: (DM) Focal, political, stealthy=995***=Katalin Lakatos=Audacious Thief="The last thing they expect should be the first thing you attempt."=Appearance: Remarkably plain-looking, she disappears in a crowd. =Roleplaying: Katalin speaks with a faint accent, and commonly uses foreign phrases.=Personality: Life is a series of challenges; with enough training and information, all of them can be overcome.=Motivation: She lives to do the impossible.=Background: Her father's locksmith business taught her that people will pay far more to get in to something than to keep others out. It also provided her with hours of puzzles and games, such as "How fast can I pick that lock?" and "How many tries will it take to crack this combination?" Gymnastics training and spelunking with her brothers taught her that her body can do more than she ever thought possible. And smuggling wine and cigarettes over the border taught her that sometimes, it's best to just do it. A close call and an arrest warrant drove Katalin away from home, but her talents and an innate ability to learn new languages kept her in cash and in the game. She is now in semi-retirement, trading her skills and knowledge to certain governments in return for immunity from prosecution. Since then, she's trained any number of agents, and even gone on critical missions. =Traits: (KS) Adventurer, genius, mysterious, stealthy, wealthy=996***=Maxine "Max" Pemberton, Ph.D.=Experimental Scientist="Let me repeat, there will be no-that's capital N, capital O-no unauthorized experiments in this lab. Do I make myself clear?"=Appearance: Her profile is severe. She pulls her dark hair back in a tight bun, wears narrow rectangular eyeglasses, and keeps her lab coat buttoned up to the collar. She favors casual business attire most days.=Roleplaying: She has a habit of pulling her glasses down her nose to peer through them disapprovingly. When being reprimanded, she pushes them back up defensively.=Personality: She is stern but also servile in many ways. If a person in authority makes even a casual observation, she takes it as criticism and works to "fix" it immediately.  She is eager to please, assist, or otherwise acquiesce to any person in authority.=Motivation: She is a stickler for the rules-even ones she didn't have a hand in making. She doesn't question the authority of others, and expects others to regard her the same way.=Background: Maxine's parents were academics and she grew up near a university campus.  Immediately after earning her doctorate, she joined a government research lab, having never experienced life outside an academic environment. This somewhat sheltered life cultivated a trust in authority figures and taught her to value scholastic merit above all else. She presumes that all leaders share these values.=Traits: (TT) Academic, leader, scientist=997***=Danielle "Bit Dump" Athens=Fugitive Hacker="If they were smart enough to catch me they would have done it already."=Appearance: A tall, gangly young woman with wild, bleached blond hair, Danielle's dark eyes are framed by a host of freckles. Her clothes are dirty and wrinkled and she has a slight odor of cigarettes and stale sweat.=Roleplaying: Scared of being caught, Danielle is hard to get a straight answer out of, especially regarding information that could jeopardize her freedom.=Personality: Danielle is addicted to the thrill of computer crimes and giving it up simply isn't an option for her, even if it would mean a return to a normal lifestyle.=Motivation: Feeding her addiction for the rush of her crimes is Danielle's biggest motivator.=Background: Danielle had a knack for computers and hacking from a very young age. By the time she headed off to college, she had an extensive rap sheet with multiple counts of hacking. Forbidden to own a computer by her parents, Danielle started scavenging spare parts from the local dump and built a piecemeal machine in the trunk of her car, using it at local Wi-Fi hubs to continue her dangerous hobby. When the police started looking for her again, Danielle went on the run. She now lives the life of a vagrant, selling her considerable hacking skills for the money she needs to survive.=Traits: (MN) Criminal, genius, impoverished, mysterious, notorious=998***=Dale Hamilton=Reluctant Celebrity="I'm very proud of this film. Yes, I was invited to several parties following the ceremonies. No, I won't be attending them. I just want to enjoy this moment with my family. Besides, I have an obligation to be on the set early tomorrow morning."=Appearance: He is tan, athletic, handsome, and versatile in his appearance.=Roleplaying: Dale likes to stay out of the limelight, but he never turns away a fan that recognizes him. He will always sign an autograph and shake a person's hand with sincere gratitude for their appreciation of his work.=Personality: He is a quiet person who constantly observes people. Occasionally, he is caught mimicking another person's body language, dialect, or mannerisms. Dale is constantly honing his skills as an actor.=Motivation: He is very appreciative of the wealth and fame that his acting has earned him, but he has no desire to be a celebrity. His only concern is to deliver the best performance he is capable of.=Background: From an early age, Dale has always been on the stage. Eventually, he moved to Los Angeles after studying in New York and performing on Broadway. He kept his nose to the grindstone and never fell into the traps that other celebrities have succumbed to. His dedication has made him a star, and now he is one of the biggest names in Hollywood.=Traits: (PB) Artist, beautiful, charming, entertainment, famous, focal, wealthy=999***=Deana Cales=Weary Powerbroker="Honey, the Senator is a good friend. I can give him a call and get that investigation dropped. I would be happy to do that, if you could help me with a little problem I am having."=Appearance: An attractive woman in her mid-fifties, constant workouts and diets kip Deana thin and fin. She has shoulder-length blond hair.=Roleplaying: Deana has a permanent connection to her smart phone, always checking and writing messages. She sighs often when she talks, and often brings up what she's planning to do when she retires.=Personality: Deana has been in the game for some time, and it has begun to take its toll. Deana is no longer as sharp as she used to, believing that she has done it all and that every new deal is a derivative of the last.=Motivation: It used to be all about the deal, about the power she could wield, but now Deana thinks of getting out of the game and retiring. =Background: Deana was a born into a political family and grew up with senators and ambassadors as family friends. She went to the best schools and worked several government positions. Later, she left government and went into consulting. Soon, people sought her out for her connections, and it didn't take long for her to get into brokering deals to get things accomplished. She quickly became known as the grease that kept the wheels of government turning.=Traits: (PV) Counselor, political=1000***=Alicia Perry=Driven Businesswoman="A 15% drop in three weeks? I want a report on my desk tomorrow identifying the primary contributions."=Appearance: Alicia is a tall woman of about 40 with Nordic features-blond hair, blue eyes, and stout enough she won't blow away in a storm.=Roleplaying: Conversations with Alicia are exercises in dominance; her points are right and must be acknowledged as such. Interrupting her earns an icy glare-or she'll pointedly call out your rudeness to keep you in line.=Personality: Alicia is uptight and perfectionist, with a ready energy and the will to lead. She knows how easy it is for a woman to be viewed as passive, so she'll keep people in line and shut them down to keep attention and acknowledgment on her.=Motivation: She loves having power, and uses it to settle scores. If you cross Alicia, you'll eventually pay the price.=Background: By effort and training, she's succeeded in a realm where women are still unexpected. After acquiring a Harvard MBA and working in multinational corporations, she developed the experience and contacts to launch her own successful business. It's taken a lot of effort and contacts, but she's getting accolades for her success. Unfortunately, she's also left behind a trail of bitter personal aides and administrative assistants who nurse grudges.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, business, leader=