Sci-Fi Neutrals=What do a mercenary who never speaks, a cold-hearted orbital patrol pilot, and an interstellar hippie have in common? They're all neutral characters found in this chapter, accompanied by a host of other memorable NPCs who can fill just about any role in a sci-fi campaign. Like all of the neutrals in Masks, these characters can be used as-is (possibly changing their relationship with the PCs over time) or easily transformed into allies or villains with just a few deft tweaks on your part.=418***=Yaza Reed=Idealistic Soldier="It's an honor to serve with the Galactic Marines, isn't it?"=Appearance: Yaza is a young woman fresh out of the academy. While she owns a dress uniform, Yaza wears as little as possible inside her power armor. She keeps her hair short for the same reason. =Roleplaying: She is enthusiastic and tends to treat her power armor as a second skin, saying "I'm hit" rather than "the armor's damaged." She always believes that she is doing the right thing.=Personality: A bit of an innocent, Yaza is idealistic now, but it remains to be seen whether her stint in the marines will change her perspective, especially when given questionable orders.=Motivation: She wants to be the best marine that she can be.=Background: As a child, Yaza always wanted to join the galactic marines. When she enrolled, she was considered an ideal candidate for the power armor program and now has a custom suit. Yaza truly believes in the principles of the galactic government and wants to do her part to uphold its values. Unfortunately, the government isn't as altruistic as she thinks and her squad is sometimes ordered to perform questionable missions. So far, Yaza has been able to rationalize them, but things will come to a head soon. Yaza is one step away from either holding onto her ideals for good or becoming a cynical soldier.=Traits: (WC) Military, pilot, warrior=419***=Sinnibar Constantine=Laboring Academic="All required effort, praised or scorned, proves an interesting study. The holes where automation failed-agriculture, disassembly, and corporate interfaces-all tell a story."=Appearance: Sinnibar is a man of 72, lean and muscled from work, with salt and pepper hair and deep brown eyes.=Roleplaying: Doctor Constantine knows physical labor; he moves with an easy confidence, slowing, but still fit. His speech is littered with slang from the underclass, often thrown in to shock or accent, but he can turn any experience into an academic presentation at the drop of a hat.=Personality: Sinnibar is fascinated by the details of daily life, the unconsidered and background. He has taken on dozens of jobs for a few weeks or a few months, learned the life, and written up his experiences for publication in academic journals.=Motivation: He wants to justify and explain labor and laborers to his peers.=Background: Sinnibar grew up working on a farm, still tending and treating the animals by hand. When he began advanced studies he investigated labor-and noticed which sectors of the economy remained resistant to automation, and which ones were disappearing. He decided to work in the field, hoping to explain and record traditional work forms. His research has been sponsored by companies, who apply his discoveries-often to reducing workers or automating the few remaining industries.=Traits: (SM) Academic, ancient, business, laborer, scholar=420***=Daston Laeh=Underground Purveyor="There's nothing wrong with the world we made. It suits most people, most especially me. But everyone needs a little something extra, something particular to them. And if that something extra falls beyond what is allowed, well, let's just say that I might know a way to make it happen." =Appearance: He's dressed in the same androgynous clothing as everyone else in his utopian society. He is balding.=Roleplaying: He gives the impression that he knows something that others don't.=Personality: Daston is cunning, capable of working cracks in the system to his advantage. He often is amused when he sees customers engage in little acts of defiance-thinking themselves daring-while he is facilitating truly depraved and criminal behavior. =Motivation: He provides illicit goods and services to corrupt members of the ruling elite and to nonconformist thrill-seekers. The system he helps others overcome is the same system that props up his business. He does not seek to overthrow it, only to manipulate it to his advantage.=Background: In his youth, Daston discovered that providing access to items or services under the table afforded him both profit and freedom. As time went on, the requests became more illicit and his skill increased. Outwardly, he never puts himself into a situation that will bring unwarranted attention. In his utopian society's secret places, though, he operates with a measure of immunity, confidence, and self-assuredness.=Traits: (TT) Criminal, merchant, stealthy=421***=Cliff Denen=Immoral Journalist="Honey, you mistook my attention as caring. I cared, but not about you. I cared about getting the story. Don't be mad; I will never forget that time in the orbital shuttle."=Appearance: Cliff is tall, with a square jaw and rugged looks. He wears stylish, casual clothes.=Roleplaying: Cliff Denen always introduces himself using his full name. He is a great listener, and easily navigates conversations to keep people talking. =Personality: Just shy of being a moral person, Cliff is not afraid to use his looks to sway vulnerable women to get access or information. He does not mean any malice towards them, turning them into innocent bystanders as he pursues a story.=Motivation: Cliff is obsessed with his fame. He knows that sensational stories bring in the most fame, so he focuses all his efforts on finding them.=Background: Growing up watching too much holo-media, Cliff dreamed of being famous. When civil war broke on his home world, he took his camera, reported the story, broadcast it on the info-net, and became a minor sensation. After the war, a media outlet approached him with a job offer. Since then, Cliff has gone for one sensational story after another, and he quickly made himself the hottest holo-celebrity in the universe. In his pursuit of stories, he has slept with numerous women, using them to get to the story. It's only a matter of time before he becomes the story.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, entertainment, famous, white collar=422***=Tikal Loomis=Influential Xenoanthropologist="May your negotiations be filled with truth and wahnar gentlepeople."=Appearance: Tikal is attractive, and stands out with primitive clothing accents: vivid red fur complements her mouse-brown hair, and her crudely worked silver earrings are sure to be copied as rustic chic.=Roleplaying: She smiles and jokes with whichever side she's talking to. She's above the petty conflict and can see all sides of the disagreement. She peppers her speech with "untranslatable" words from the other side.=Personality: Tikal pretends to be direct and surprised at the unexpected consequences of her actions, but it's an act. She likes to manipulate people and maximize returns on her effort.=Motivation: She's happy when she's needed, particularly when she can influence things-whether as negotiator, translator, or explaining machinery to the locals. While this started off as a lark, she's good at figuring out what's best for her, and then convincing others to buy in.=Background: Tikal came to this world to study the local culture. After courting death by misunderstanding local customs, she finally learned enough to be admitted as an outsider. Three months later, on a hunt with the locals, she came across an outcropping of rare crystals-and a corporate survey team. The locals set upon the miners for trespassing, beating the survey team as a warning. Tikal feels obligation to the locals-and recognizes a chance to really influence things. Perhaps that's why she contacts the PCs...=Traits: (SM) Dilettante, focal, primal =423***=Quincy Austens=Televangelist Hoarder="Prepare, my children of the flock! The day of reckoning is coming, and you must see to it that our house is in order! Send in your donation, and together we will see the warehouses of the faithful stocked for when the angel's horn is blown and the end times begin!"=Appearance: He wears a white linen suit, a white silk shirt and tie, white gloves, and a pair of highly polished white leather shoes. The ensemble is completed with a white mask and cowl, leaving no flesh visible.=Roleplaying: Quincy holds a religious symbol close to his chest when he seeks divine inspiration during moments of stress. He ends every conversation with a request for a donation of any type to his church.=Personality: He is a kind man, but he will not tolerate blasphemy. Only heathen acts pique his anger.=Motivation: He sincerely believes that it is his divine mission to acquire and secure supplies for use by the faithful to survive the end times.=Background: Very little is known about Quincy. He originally wore a shoddy suit and his mask was merely a cheap plastic costume piece. Yet he was a gifted preacher, and when he asked for people to give, they responded. Eventually he was put on the wave system, and his message is now being broadcast to 17 planets and over 100 space stations.=Traits: (PB) Charming, entertainment, mysterious, religious, zealot=424***=Sister Charity=Saintly Survivor="With snowy fleece so soft and clean. Sleep, baby, sleep."=Appearance: She is young, still in her twenties. Her bird-like face and wispy body are showing signs of fatigue and poor nutrition. She wears a blue-green hospital smock.=Roleplaying: As part of her bedside manner, she sings lullabies while tending to the sick at night.=Personality: She is a giving person, selfless in the face of impending doom. Though physically, emotionally, and mentally drained, she exhibits all the best qualities of a good nurse.=Motivation: Sister Charity has always sought to mend, to help repair friendships as well as wounds.=Background: She was an EMT, trapped in the hospital under quarantine as the "aPOXalypse" brought death by disease to more than 90% of the human population. Though she has forgotten even her own name in the trauma of that time, she remembers being prevented from leaving the hospital-being prevented from tending to her own loved ones as they contracted the disease. Instead she remained at her post, steadfast and helping all she could. Her patients, all now succumbed to the disease, called her Sister Charity for her tireless care during the worst of it, when even the hospital staff was dying all around her, some driven to murder during the madness. Now she wanders the countryside, lending what aid she can.=Traits: (TT) Medic, saintly=425***=Zhi Fang=Scheming Entrepreneur="I heard about you, hotshot. Word is that you're an okay hacker. Wanna make it big? This is a military-grade hack. With your skills, it should crack Ylyt Concepts. They'd be perfect; those small labs can't afford security like the big boys. See what they're working on, and I'll split it 50-50 with you."=Appearance: Dressed in counterfeit designer rip-offs, last year's haircut, and a retro pair of mirrored sunglasses, Zhi is usually easy to find.=Roleplaying: A constant chatter of coercion flows from Zhi's mouth.=Personality: Zhi may be selfish, but he's not evil; he just feels that he needs to use others to get ahead. He is always looking for an angle in any situation; usually it's getting someone else to take the risk.=Motivation: Zhi wants a chunk of one really big deal, and is terrified that he will never get it.=Background: Hustling since he could talk, Zhi has spent most of his life barely avoiding jail time. He has been sanctioned, fined, lost licenses and permits, and barely escaped any number of bad deals, but that's what a man has to do these days (or so he tells himself). Zhi does have good contacts and the social skills to maintain them despite his manipulative ways. He also has a knack for avoiding the bigger traps in his profession, but isn't above setting them for others. =Traits: (KS) Aggressive, criminal, merchant, power hungry=426***=Josiah Goodman=Disagreeable Missionary="Certainly it is self-evident that your technical superiority does not negate the moral superiority of my people."=Appearance: Decked out in shiny new gear that would have been obsolete centuries ago, it is clear that Josiah is from a civilization that has just managed to develop deep space travel. His clothing is drab and functional; his face is serious and deeply lined by its constant frown.=Roleplaying: Josiah is smugly superior and rarely misses an opportunity to correct others' mistakes of action or thought. He never admits to being wrong or fallible and will use flawed or circular logic to prove himself right.=Personality: From a planet where a single people and religion became dominant early on, Josiah has never questioned himself or the established system. He is known at home for being wise and insightful and it has gone to his head. Every new culture is just a new way of being wrong as far as he is concerned.=Motivation: Josiah came to space to proselytize, claim, and colonize.=Background: An influential man considered a wise authority on his home planet, Josiah volunteered to be one of the first of his people to travel into space so that he could bring the light of their way of life to the ignorant savages doubtlessly found there. Thus far he has encountered several groups and has been greatly surprised by their level of technology and resistance to his message.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, counselor, religious, zealot=427***=Kurt=Silent Mercenary=<He stares silently at you>=Appearance: He stands just over six feet tall, wearing a synthweave shirt and armor vest. The sides of his head are shaved clean and small bumps under the skin form an ornate pattern on either cheek. Pistols rest upon both hips.=Roleplaying: His blue eyes look calmly about as he cracks his knuckles absently. It is the only sound he makes: Kurt does not speak. His eyes are very expressive.=Personality: Kurt quickly moves to defend the weak or innocent, although he abstains from using deadly force unless he has to. Many view him as a strong, silent companion that they know little about. He's reliable and takes orders without question.=Motivation: He's sworn himself to a code of silence and will not speak. This vow also binds him to do no harm except in the service of protecting the weak, and to seek redemption through his actions.=Background: Kurt's background is lost in rumors and hearsay. It's told that he spent his early years as a hired gun and helped wipe out a colony on a fringe world as part of a pirate gang. He spent years recovering from alcoholism until he took up the holy calling. Kurt now leads a pure life and seeks atonement through helping others. Someone once called him "curt" for not speaking when asked a question, and it became his new name.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, mysterious, religious, saintly, warrior=428***=Madame Rocheford Pinnacle-Brown=Guarded Librarian="All knowledge is worth having. At the right price, of course."=Appearance: Her wrinkled skin betrays the years of regenerative therapy that have caught up with her. Her dull, gray eyes are sunken and her silver hair is matted down. A simple pendant hangs around her neck. She wears gray robes with the seal of the ascendant, hand-embroidered in the way of the royal family.=Roleplaying: She is prim and proper to the extreme, her chin always raised and speaking in a clear monotone. She does not use contractions in her speech. Her only displays of emotion are at the mention of being charged an exorbitant price or when discussing an extraordinary find she acquired at minimal cost.=Personality: The last steward of the royal houses, Madame is a relic of a bygone age when civility and station mattered more than anything. She respects accomplishments, titles, and those who have achieved some academic standing.=Motivation: She is moved by the acquisition and preservation of history. She is also in search of a worthwhile inheritor of her legacy of knowledge.=Background: Madame is the last steward of the Provincial Hierarchy, a secret society of scholars and historians. Their breadth of information is impressive, as are the measures they will take to protect it; it is not readily shared with just anyone. Madame now realizes that the information must be passed on. Her demeanor and age make her reluctant to spend money, as knowledge should be free.=Traits: (DM) Royalty, scholar=429***=Suzi Kig =Urchin Scavenger="Hey! Back off! That body is mine. I found it first. Oh man, look at those eyes, high quality. It's going to be a good night tonight."=Appearance: Suzi is a young woman in dirty clothes with blond dreadlocks. She bears a number of scars from a rough youth. She wears an oversized army jacket with a mismatch of patches sewn on.=Roleplaying: She lashes out in rage over the tiniest misunderstanding. She's uncouth, jumpy, and snaps her head when startled. =Personality: Suzi has no tolerance for rules or laws; she finds them suffocating. Suzi does what she wants when she wants. She enjoys the company of people and is always on the lookout for a gang or pack to run the streets with.=Motivation: She does what she needs to in order to survive. She needs to be free, leaving any place that looks to be bound with rules or laws.=Background: Suzi was just a child when the economy collapsed. She survived the Great Riots with her nomadic family, traveling from city to city. Suzi learned a wide variety of skills on the road. After reaching adulthood, she broke off from the nomads and settled into the lawless sector of the city. There, she used her amateur medical skills to start scavenging implants from the casualties of the secret corporate conflicts and gang wars that go on in the sector. =Traits: (PV) Aggressive, medic, primal	=430***=Bolero Valeran=Wealthy Artist="No, no, no, we simply must see the Archean System. I'm sure the solar flares won't be a problem."=Appearance: Tall and ravishingly handsome, Bolero always looks like he got dressed in the dark. His fine, inordinately expensive clothes are rumpled, mismatched, and in terribly bad taste.=Roleplaying: Bolero leans towards people when listening to them, and leans back when he speaks.=Personality: He possesses a bottomless well of curiosity and a shallow puddle of attention. His focus darts from topic to topic and person to person, and the only constant in his life is that he must always be heading someplace new.=Motivation: He loves the thrill of seeing a new place, painting a new picture, and moving on-he's fascinated by transitory experiences.=Background: Fabulously wealthy, Bolero is an itinerant artist who pays people to take him to interesting places so that he can paint them. His artwork is terrible, and he's completely blind to this fact (though no one else is). The places he wants to go are often dangerous, something else he appears to be blind to. But, where danger and wealth collide, there are opportunities for the PCs. Getting Bolero into and out of danger pays well, and he's a likable, if eccentric, traveling companion, generous with his money and prone to throwing extravagant parties.=Traits: (MR) Artist, charming, eccentric, entertainment, humorous, wealthy=431***=Sir Henry Ashton=Brilliant Capitalist="What is the idea? Do you have a working prototype? How much do you need? Two million credits? That is ludicrous! I'm going to give you four million. There! Now that the matter is dealt with, can I interest you in a Saturnian Mojito?"=Appearance: A large-framed man with a muscular build, but also an emerging pot belly, he wears only the finest designer fashions. His mutton chops are beginning to show a hint of gray.=Roleplaying: He is jocular and warm to everyone he meets. He likes to flirt with younger men, but will restrain himself if it makes others uncomfortable.=Personality: Sir Henry is confident, energetic, and lives life according to his own terms.=Motivation: He has been so blessed in life that he wants to help others succeed in their endeavors. He might make a profit from these ventures, but that is not his primary motive.=Background: Expected to become a professional athlete upon graduating from university, Henry Ashton shocked everyone by starting his own company instead. He has engineered some of the most advanced interstellar spacecraft engines, and was knighted by the royal family of the Andromeda system in recognition of his achievements. With such great wealth he wants for nothing, but helping others with their own challenges suits him just fine.=Traits: (PB) Business, dilettante, eccentric, genius, wealthy=432***=Janos Meika=Thrill-Seeking Drug Addict="Hell, yeah! This is the best thing I've ever felt! Let's take six more!"=Appearance: Janos is a golden-haired Adonis with a six pack, nice clothes, and a winning smile.=Roleplaying: His eyes are perpetually wide open, and there's a manic quality to his grin.=Personality: Janos is a walking stereotype of a rich drug addict who lives in the moment and has no fear of consequences. If forced to rehabilitate, his old self-a funny, arrogant-but-likable thrill seeker-might emerge again.=Motivation: He lives to chase the next high, the newest craze, the wildest party, the ultimate rush.=Background: Janos used to be an ordinary twenty-something from a wealthy family, but his addiction to adrenaline took a dark turn. Now he lusts after synthetic highs instead, and he's become what he likes to call a "drug pioneer." He'll inject, snort, download, or ingest just about anything you put in front of him. His life is a perpetual bender, and it rarely stops with drugs: drugs lead to parties, which lead underground clubs, which lead to kinky sex and Janos waking up in a pile of naked people and thinking he's a praying mantis. For now, it's one hell of a wild ride, but it's not going to last much longer-Janos will destroy himself in the next few weeks, possibly even days. His parents have no idea where he is, as he's converted his considerable wealth into cash and stayed off the grid.=Traits: (MR) Dilettante, wealthy=433***=Alexa Robins=Unreliable Hacker="I've replaced their data with self-perpetuating fractal imagery!"=Appearance: At work, Alexa blends in with everyone else and keeps her chestnut hair in a neat braid. She has several implanted data jacks, and an alert observer may notice a few mostly hidden tattoos and empty piercing holes. On her own time, Alexa's fashion is far more eclectic, full of vivid colors and wild fashions, and her ink and jewelry are proudly displayed.=Roleplaying: Quiet and reserved at work, Alexa is giggly and high-energy at home. She often puts her fingers to her lips and leans in close to talk as if the topic of conversation were a big secret, even if it's nothing special. =Personality: Alexa only did enough growing up for the corporate world to think she was employable. In her personal life she's playful and fun loving and enjoys putting her hacking talents to work in thrilling and artistic ways.=Motivation: Stifled by her day job, Alexa just wants to express herself and have fun.=Background: By day a corporate drone, by night a freewheeling data anarchist, Alexa views her employment as "slavery to the Man" and her hacking as artistic expression. Unfortunately, she does neither particularly well. Those who have hired her for her illicit skills have found her more interested in expressing her individuality in the medium of data than properly completing a job or covering her trail.=Traits: (MN) Artist, business, criminal, eccentric, white collar  =434***=Gabby "From Pasadena" Smith=Nonchalant Time Traveler="What year is it? Oh my! I hope that my Albert doesn't forget to take the chicken out of the freezer to thaw."=Appearance: She is a petite elderly woman with large eye glasses. She carries a huge handbag that always seems to have the simplest of objects needed for whatever task is set before her.=Roleplaying: She has a habit of holding her hand to her chin and saying, "Oh my!" She also comforts others by patting their hand and saying, "That's alright, dear."=Personality: Gabby never seems to be upset or frightened by anything, but she does worry quite a bit.=Motivation: It seemed like such a waste to construct a time machine and not use it. As long she gets back home in time to watch her favorite game show with Albert, everything will be fine.=Background: When the contents of several crates marked top secret were accidentally delivered to her home, Gabby called the government to pick them up. The project was so secret that no one knew what she was talking about. So Gabby opened the crates to see if she could find a phone number or an address. Inside, she found shiny metal bits, shimmering tubes, and snaking wires that begged to be fiddled with. With a little elbow grease and patience she put them together, something the best minds had failed at for years. Now she has her own time machine. Why not use it?=Traits: (PB) Genius, pilot, saintly=435***=Farouk Binsada=Faith Healer="Come, brother, share your pain with me."=Appearance: Gaily dressed in robes of red and gold bearing ornate sigils of the celestial faith, Farouk pads by on worn sandals. Hand-carved prayer beads dangle around his hand and he stands out as a Luddite surrounded by a sea of technology. The chocolate-brown skin of his face is marked by small pricks of color representing the constellations.=Roleplaying: Farouk is friendly and outgoing, clasping hands within his own and eager to lend assistance. He has a calm wisdom about himself and shares his insight without having to be asked. He will interject with parables regarding the celestial faith.=Personality: Farouk is even-tempered and difficult to provoke. He looks for the good in people and in the situation. He is strong of faith but very much a pragmatist; there are some things that faith cannot protect you from.=Motivation: He is devoted to teaching the precepts of the celestial church and the miracle of the healing touch.=Background: Previously an engineer, Farouk fell into a cult of the celestial faith after the death of his family in a tragic accident. Taking nanobot samples that he had been working on, Farouk implanted them into his own body and now displays them as a symbol of his faith healing. He "empathically transfers" the wounds of another to himself and heals their injuries. Under careful scrutiny this is the work of his regenerative cellular nanobots.=Traits: (DM) Eccentric, primal, medic, religious=436***=Davis Drive=Nervous Plutocrat="Focus, gentlemen! I know that you're eager, but funding is not limitless. Let's continue to examine countermeasures and fail-safes."=Appearance: Davis stands 6'4", and is heavyset with graying blond hair. Deep blue suits and diamond earring studs tastefully call attention to his wealth.=Roleplaying: He watches his words and other people's actions carefully, overreacting if it keeps him safer. He projects calm and confidence, but falls apart when he's startled.=Personality: Davis is eager to run along the cutting edge, but he's anxious the whole time he's straying from what's well-proven and safe.=Motivation: Davis feels like he's always being judged. The Drive family has done well generation after generation; he dreads failing to measure up.=Background: Davis grew up wealthy, and has done well since he began directing the company's research arm. He revived sonic technology research and dedicated serious resources to increasing their precision and versatility. Coupled with an extraordinarily effective marketing campaign, he introduced dozens of new sonic applications (weapons, cleaning, disorientation, etc.) that were very well received. Imitators are cutting into the sonic line, so he's desperately seeking the next technologies to champion-whether new or another dormant technology in need of a prod.=Traits: (SM) Business, leader, wealthy=437***=Fionna Chiang=Superstitious Pilot="St. Patrick and Buddha, get me out of this and I'll never cross a gorram meteor field again!"=Appearance: This short woman's reddish hair is close-cropped, like many pilots, and a laden charm necklace and bracelet decorate her neck and wrist. =Roleplaying: Fionna freely vents her emotions, calling on her parents' mixed Chinese and Irish backgrounds for thanks, curses, and imagery. She also follows nearly-compulsive rituals in her pre-flight checks.=Personality: Although she's an excellent pilot, she credits luck for her success, and carries as many tokens of good luck as she can get away with. =Motivation: She loves to fly, and can't make a living doing anything else.=Background: The only child of a proud-but-angry Irish nationalist and his Chinese mail-order bride, Fionna left home as soon as the military would take her and never looked back. Her exceptional natural talent was recognized early, but her lack of education and social polish relegated her to transport duty. It was piloting, but it was also boring, and she left as soon as her contract was finished. Since leaving the service, she's taken any number of odd jobs to stay afloat, and is always looking to find new work. Her military background means she knows many other pilots, and their quirks.=Traits: (KS) Adventurer, eccentric, humorous, pilot=438***=Vernon Quainrite=Nervous Bureaucrat="Me? What have I done? I'm just a clerk filing forms. I don't make the big decisions; these colonies are just names to me."=Appearance: A milquetoast little man with thin hair, Vernon wears a suit that's been out of style for years and a headset that streams directives into his ears. =Roleplaying: Vernon is a quiet man who gets nervous at just having to speak. He'd much prefer electronic interaction to speaking face to face.=Personality: He is a man who doesn't ask questions. He follows orders like an efficient bureaucrat and doesn't comprehend much of what he is doing. A lot of this is willful ignorance, as taking a stand could jeopardize his position.=Motivation: He just wants to enjoy his job and retire with a decent pension.=Background: Vernon Quainrite had the misfortune of job hunting during the last galactic economic crash. He was lucky to get a job, and he was only hired because he didn't ask too many questions. He has only kept his job because he continues not to ask many questions. Throughout his career, Vernon has been sealing the fate of colony worlds by filing questionable forms, but he simply pretends that he's just inputting data. He's never had to face the consequences of his actions and as a result the company he works for continues to conduct questionable activities.=Traits: (WC) Business, white collar=439***=Dosa Ramirez=Post-Apocalyptic Scientist="Don't touch that! In six hours, it will be the cure for what you people call ‘wasteland pox.'"=Appearance: In her mid-twenties, Dosa has a perpetually furrowed brow and a distracted air about her. She wears an immaculate lab coat, which she bleaches and presses regularly.=Roleplaying: Dosa brooks no fools, but doesn't intend to be hurtful or disdainful-it's just how she comes off.=Personality: She loves people, but mostly in an abstract sense-individual people she can take or leave, but humanity as a whole is the most important thing in the world to Dosa. She's brilliant, distant, and wholly focused on her work. She's not charismatic, and people are often turned off by her brilliance and her intolerance for those less intelligent than her.=Motivation: Dosa wants to save the world, and she refuses to accept the possibility that this is impossible. She'd die for her cause, but she knows she's more valuable alive.=Background: Dosa survived the apocalypse in her parents' bunker, and emerged as one of the few scientists left in the world. Believing she was saved for a purpose, she refuses to let the light of the world go out, and works tirelessly to rebuild civilization. Anyone who can get past her attitude will quickly see that she could be instrumental in saving the world. The breadth and depth of her scientific knowledge is staggering.=Traits: (MR) Academic, focal, genius, medic, scholar, scientist=440***=Coleman Galloway=Time Machine Mechanic="Didya think keepin' this contraption running was as simple as stokin' a boiler with coal? Bah! Everyone wants to take ‘er for a spin. No one gives a thought to what makes ‘er run properly."=Appearance: In his upper middle years, Coleman makes a great show of wearing greasy overalls and strapping on a tool belt loaded down with wrenches, screwdrivers, and a mallet. The secret to his mechanical mastery-a small silver wrench with a ruby handle that sparkles when used-he keeps tucked in his chest pocket.=Roleplaying: When being introduced to someone, he has a habit of wiping his nose with a grandiose sweep of his arm, then extending that same hand for a shake.=Personality: The time machine is his pride and joy. Even though Coleman wasn't its inventor, he's modified and repaired it so many times, he thinks of it as his. He doesn't like it when anyone, even the machine's owner, starts poking around too much.=Motivation: He's not an adventurer at heart, but he goes where the machine goes. It just wouldn't do to have the crew lost in time without him there to see to its upkeep.=Background: He was a locomotive engineer in a bit of a fix when the time-hopping crew helped him out. It was during that encounter he picked up the futuristic wrench. He agreed to join them and he's been onboard ever since.=Traits: (TT) Humorous, laborer=441***=Dynah McQueen=Racing Enthusiast="It's all about the speed, baby!"=Appearance: Tall and thin with brightly dyed tousled hair and a bad-girl attitude, Dynah has a host of piercings and tattoos on her lower back and arms. She wears a grease monkey jumper and smokes cheap cigars.=Roleplaying: Dynah is cocky and sure of herself. She doesn't hesitate to argue or pick a fight with anyone she feels is wrong or obnoxious. She is boldly flirtatious with men she finds attractive.=Personality: Infatuated with men, cruising in her ship, and good beer, Dynah is hooked on the thrill of the race most of all. She's not afraid to go for what she wants or indulge in any vice that strikes her fancy.=Motivation: Dynah is pulled inexorably forwards by the lure of the next race.=Background: Always a gear head, Dynah started racing illegally when she was still too young to have a license. A few years later she ran away from home to follow the racing circuit, making money with freelance ship repair. She is an adrenaline junkie who cannot go more than a week without the thrill of the race, traveling from planet to planet to enter all the biggest and most famous races, often dodging police and security to attend illegal events. During her downtime, she tinkers extensively with her precious ship.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, business, crafter, pilot=442***=Marty Brandis=Underage Liar="What? Oh. I. I mean, you. We, that is. Oh, heck with it! <punch>"=Appearance: Slim in stature, he wears a casual-duty uniform that is slightly baggy. He keeps his brown hair-that has grown a little longer than regulation-tucked under a cap. His freckles frame a dimpled chin and small smile. He carries a little briefcase that seems out of place.=Roleplaying: Marty has a high-pitched voice and talks rapidly. He flusters easily and will clam up when pressed about his age or experience. He's a good fast-talker, a skill he uses often.=Personality: He's quick on the uptake, always looking for an angle to work. Part con artist, part thief, he's using his position in the military to enhance his reputation. Everyone respects the uniform and he's enjoying the attention. He often pretends to know more than he really does.=Motivation: Marty is trying to prove himself, and flutters from career to career. He's illegally a member of the military and hides that fact diligently. He wants to make a name for himself and prove that he can do anything.=Background: A runaway at the age of 10, Marty has grown up on the streets but quickly learned that with some fast-talking he can get what he wants. He forged his entry records, appropriated a uniform, and pretends to be in the military; his next con will be as a doctor. Previously, he engaged in petty theft and chip laundering.=Traits: (DM) Child, military, stealthy=443***=Colonel Carter Orvor =Disfigured Soldier="You know I will never forget The Battle of Novos. Never. If you ever need anything once you are out of this regen-tank, just ask."=Appearance: Carter was a tall man, but his strong frame is now broken and hunched over. Bulky cybernetics have replaced the parts of him that are missing, and his uniform fits poorly over his prosthetics. His remaining skin is tinted a sickly green.=Roleplaying: Carter breathes deeply before he speaks and only manages one sentence with each straining breath. He moves slowly, with the sounds of his cybernetics grinding out each movement.=Personality: Carter is broken in body and in spirit. He carries a tremendous guilt for the Battle of Novos. His guilt is so strong that it has undermined him as a leader, paralyzing him in the face of life-or-death decisions.=Motivation: Working one person at a time, Carter repents for his mistake.=Background: General Orvor led an army in the infamous Battle of Novos, one of the worst military failures ever recorded. With 9 million dead, the battle nearly cost the humans the entire war. At the root of the failure was a poor decision Carter made. In the battle, his command ship was attacked and destroyed. He survived, losing 40% of his body. He was reconstructed and court marshaled, where he was found guilty and demoted to Colonel. He was assigned a quiet post in a far-off spaceport.=Traits: (PV) Hideous, leader, military, notorious=444***=Jennifer "Bug Bomb" Arkten=Stalwart Orbital Trooper="Orbital drop unit Delta ready. Jump is in 3…2…1… Let's frag some bugs!"=Appearance: Jennifer is ripped, toned, and in peak physical condition. She has medium-brown skin, dark eyes, and black hair that she wears cropped short.=Roleplaying: She does everything efficiently, with no wasted motion, and is polite to a fault.=Personality: Jennifer hates the bugs, but she also respects them-and despite the fact that they're aliens with no human moral code, she treats them as honored foes. She's a grunt because she has no interest in command; she wants to fight bugs, not stare at a screen back on the dropship. She'll never give up, never leave a trooper behind, and will fight until her dying breath.=Motivation: She wants to take part in the decisive battle that finally wipes out the goddamn bugs once and for all, or die trying.=Background: A member of the elite Delta unit of orbital drop troopers, Jennifer earned her handle, "Bug Bomb," by killing bugs better than anyone else. Her commanders describe her as "unbreakable," and she has more awards for valor sitting in her locker than any other trooper in her unit. Born after the bugs invaded, she's never known anything but war. Bugs killed her parents, then her two enlisted brothers, and every death hardened her a little more. Now she lives in the moment, always pushing herself to the limit, and is the ultimate soldier.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, military, warrior=445***=Syf Geldbrand=Greedy Mercenary ="My only concern at this point is how much I get paid."=Appearance: An athletic woman with scars and tattoos, Syf sizes people up with an experienced gaze. =Roleplaying: She's foul-mouthed and coarse, and doesn't even pretend to care.=Personality: A brutal life has taught her that nobody matters but her. But because reputation is important, she will fulfill the terms of her contract, and will not turn on an employer.=Motivation: She turns a valuable set of skills and an amoral attitude into money.=Background: "Military or prison" was an easy choice for someone to whom violence came easy. And if it wasn't for those damned journalists, tracking down any rumor of "atrocity" (whatever that means in a war zone), she would have made it a good career. But the Man needed a scapegoat and damned if it wasn't Sergeant Geldbrand. Hung out to dry, she found employment as a hired gun with a string of clients, none of whom care what she does to the fools who cross her. She is a brutal warrior, and has lost nearly all of her humanity, but she will not endanger her reputation by turning on a client, or by breaking her contract.=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, aggressive, military, notorious, warrior=446***=Rei Nagano=Lecherous Smuggler="If you want me to take you to New Lima with no questions asked, then you'll have to pay the fee. And I don't mean with credits."=Appearance: Rei is a shady smuggler who frequents spaceports in distressed areas. He always wears a brown synth-leather jacket. Rei has perpetual five o'clock shadow and wears strong cologne. He has a pistol strapped to his thigh. =Roleplaying: When approached about a job, Rei prefers to negotiate the price with the person he wants to bed. He actually offers pretty good prices providing that the other person agrees to be his "friend" for the duration of the trip. He gets defensive if he's rejected, but he may still be persuaded to take them at a higher rate.=Personality: He has always been lecherous. While he's attractive, Rei ruins any chance of a budding romance with crass talk and cheap advances. He preys on the desperate, as they are willing to overlook his social shortcomings in exchange for passage.=Motivation: He enjoys meaningful overnight relationships.=Background: Rei got into the smuggling business because he wanted to make a fast buck. He also discovered that many people were attracted to his dangerous lifestyle. After a while, Rei became addicted to sex. He now prowls the unstable regions of the galaxy, offering rides to broke passengers who are willing to pay in kind.=Traits: (WC) Abhorrent, business, pilot=447***=Dwight Griffon=Unscrupulous Cargo Hauler="Look, officer, I just want to get my cargo to the station. How was I supposed to know that Jeruvian flowers're illegal there? It's 57 light years from where I normally work!"=Appearance: He wears a red trucker's cap and has a chubby face. He dresses comfortably in jeans and an unzipped space suit jacket.=Roleplaying: Dwight will take the job-no questions asked. That is, if the pay is good enough. He doesn't want to get involved beyond hauling cargo, but often gets himself into big trouble.=Personality: He is opportunistic and rarely cares about what he carries in his cargo hauler. He just wants to get there and get paid.=Motivation: Dwight wants to make money so he can live a more comfortable life that always seems right around the corner.=Background: "Just one big job," is all Dwight thinks it's going to take. Sure, he could take the safe route and keep doing short runs of legal cargo, but that's for suckers who can't see the bigger picture. Dwight's goals are much grander. He wants to bring in the big bucks, and if that means turning his head the other way while the cargo bots load up his ship, well, whatever. Dwight knows there is risk involved in what he does, but he doesn't want to go out penniless and poor like his old man. Maybe it's time to retire, but only when one more job puts him over the top.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, laborer, merchant=448***=Professor Marcia Krixon=Radical Instigator="Question the values of this society. Do not assume that they were put in place for noble reasons. Can you really trust the authorities? The faculty? Your parents? Look for the answers for yourself. I'll help you find them."=Appearance: Her short, spiky hair is dyed neon orange. As she speaks, her teleprompter spectacles flash reversed lines of text pulled from the information network. This text might be quotations, statistics, or facts relevant to whatever topic she is discussing.=Roleplaying: If a person opposes her in a debate, she attacks their arguments. If she is losing the debate, she attacks their character.=Personality: Prof. Krixon is passionate, but she is blinded by a political agenda rooted in seizing control from whoever currently has it.=Motivation: She believes that if she can overthrow the powers that be through organized protests, she would naturally be chosen to replace them.=Background: Marcia started as a rebellious student, graduated, and then became a rebellious faculty member. While she has many grand ideas about how the world should be, she has never actually done anything outside the ivory towers of academia. Lately, she has been using the push to grant citizenship to beings of artificial intelligence as her platform of choice to lead into her political rhetoric. She will be wholly devoted to that cause until a better one appears for her to latch onto.=Traits: (PB) Academic, eccentric, leader, political=449***=Hurley Nyx=Confident Mercenary="Our paymaster's a real bitch. She'll carve you a new smile if your payment's late-unless I get to you first."=Appearance: She's tall and leanly muscular, with a mocha complexion, brown eyes, and sun-bleached brown hair down to her shoulders.=Roleplaying: Hurley can't go two sentences without cursing for emphasis, unless she's peppering her conversation partners directly with graphic descriptions.=Personality: Well-traveled, wanted, and deadly-Hurley is deeply confident. Her troops love and fear her, convinced that they are the best. The market agrees.=Motivation: Hurley knows war and fighting-and enjoys the fear and deference she's given. She's too known, wanted, and set in her skills to successfully transition to another job. =Background: Hurley grew up an alley rat in the slums, watching starships come and go at night. Her gang was brutal, winning even when wildly overmatched, and punishing the losers so severely that stronger gangs backed down to avoid the same fate. She was betrayed and left for dead; she joined the military to get away from her pursuers when they realized she'd survived. She rose in rank quickly; her ruthless determination and instinctive drive put her in dangerous situations again and again. In the last war, she ruthlessly suppressed the rebels-but her political backers disavowed her when the public turned against her methods. She took her troops to the stars as a mercenary, ready to crush the opposition-for the right price.=Traits: (SM) Leader, notorious, political, warrior=450***=Jaenisha Washington=Rugged Fossil Hunter="Lab work? Ugh. A fate worse than death. This is the life: finding dino bones in Big Sky Country. And yes, I enjoy country music too. Not bad for a big city girl."=Appearance: Her dark hair is braided tight and she has a caramel complexion. She wears a straw cowboy hat, a T-shirt with the words "Watch your step" on the front and the picture of a dinosaur footprint on the back, denim jeans, and work gloves.=Roleplaying: At the end of the day, Jaenisha indulges in an ice-cold beer from a cooler and a long smoke from a corncob pipe she keeps in her pack.=Personality: She is friendly, but can be demanding and exacting with regard to her team's excavation methods.=Motivation: She wants to find dinosaur bones with the marrow intact, part of an effort to eventually clone dinosaurs.=Background: Fascinated by dinosaurs growing up, Jaenisha studied them relentlessly and became a paleontologist. The field was crowded because of the dinosaur frenzy of the 1990s, so to maintain funding, she accepted grants from just about anyone. Most recently, she was offered money from a company interested in-of all things-cloning dinosaurs, just like in the movies. Cloning advances aside, she thinks it a fool's errand. But, since it pays the bills and keeps her in the field hunting bones, she goes along. She'd be surprised to learn how far her findings have advanced their cloning efforts.=Traits: (TT) Outdoorsman, scientist=451***=Melissa Saxby=Creepy Mom="Look! He's growing a new tentacle. Aw, who's a little woogums, then?"=Appearance: Melissa is a mess, with tangled hair, dirty clothes, a wild-eyed stare, and the odor to match. Her mutant son, Jase, barely looks human-he's basically a blob covered in arms and tentacles at this point.=Roleplaying: When she's tending to Jase, Melissa is over-the-top lovey-dovey. The rest of the time, she's furtive, paranoid, and disconnected from reality.=Personality: Melissa is deeply, deeply disturbed. Her mood swings rapidly from cloyingly protective of Jase to raging paranoia about "the goddamn scientists chasing us."=Motivation: She wants to protect her beautiful baby boy from the hundreds of people she imagines are hunting them-at any cost.=Background: Melissa is creepily devoted to her hideously mutated-and still mutating-son, Jase. Jase has six eyes, five tentacles, two right arms, and a wide variety of other surreal mutations. Convinced that "science is after Jase," Melissa lives her life on the run from "them." She keeps her son swaddled and hidden from view (a nice surprise for the PCs), but can't resist showing him off to anyone who displays an interest in him. No one knows why Jase keeps changing, or what he's changing into, but there's a malignant intelligence to his eyes that suggests the end result won't be good for anyone but him.=Traits: (MR) Impoverished, mysterious, primal=452***=Timony Hall=Corrupt Politician="Consider this free advice for the new arrivals to Magear. Anything you want done, you see Hall. Anything you get done, give a piece of it to Hall."=Appearance: Timony is an obese, bearded man dressed in the finest clothes.=Roleplaying: He's direct and coarse, and often uses foul language just for the reaction. When he enters the canteen, everyone immediately jumps to greet him.=Personality: He's proud to have worked his way up from the mean streets, and his rough attitude shows it.=Motivation: He can't ever have enough money and power.=Background: One of the first miners on Magear, Hall quickly gained a reputation as a tough customer. He focused his energy against his employer, organizing a union and leading a strike that crippled the business. The owners put him in a position of authority, hoping it would co-opt him. He has since leveraged this position into a small fiefdom based on popularity and corruption, and the owners don't care as long as their quotas are met. For the last decade, Hall has wrung immense wealth from the growing city and port that support the mine, and has a hand in just about everything of importance that happens on Magear. He is rumored to be building up to something truly big.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, criminal, focal, leader, notorious, political, power hungry, wealthy=453***=Estella Deneb=Wealthy Patron="Ah, yes. I did ask you to acquire that old thing; see James for your finder's fee. But wouldn't it be truly exciting if this new rumor is true?"=Appearance: Estella wears a fashionably anachronistic gown accented with priceless ancient tribal jewelry. She looks equally comfortable holding forth on her latest finds at parties or in her gallery.=Roleplaying: Her breeding has given her aristocratic speech and mannerisms. She becomes bored with an item or pursuit as soon as another comes along.=Personality: Whatever she is interested in, is what everyone else should be interested in. But as soon as everyone catches up, she's off to the next interesting thing.=Motivation: To maintain her position near the top of the archaeological art world, she must continuously discover new cultures and their artifacts.=Background: Born into wealth that many could not fathom, Estelle avoided the boredom of the truly rich by studying ancient cultures. Joining an off-world archaeological dig in college, she returned with a number of rare artifacts. When the value of these was mentioned in a news report, her elderly father was finally impressed by her, and started supporting her work. Although he passed away decades ago, her archaeology and gallery are a way for her to commune with him. In this strange manner, her gallery's success is her father's long-sought approval. Her advancing age means that she now hires others to do the grunt work.=Traits: (KS) Artist, business, charming, famous, wealthy=454***=Tessa Starguard=Reckless Time Traveler="What harm can there be in taking the odd trinket? I haven't disappeared, have I? So, would you like to see the original performance of Hamlet or not?"=Appearance: Tessa is a pretty woman who wears her hair and clothes in fashions that don't belong in the current time. When stealing a "trinket," she opts for a tight-fitting cat suit. =Roleplaying: She enjoys teasing people and hinting about their future. She also loves to name-drop, claiming to have met many famous personages in history.=Personality: She is a free spirit that enjoys traveling through history as if it were her personal playground. Unfortunately, she doesn't respect temporal laws and this is eventually going to cause trouble.=Motivation: She wants to participate in momentous historical events.=Background: Tessa comes from the future. She is fascinated by time travel and was disappointed that "field trips" in her temporal studies courses were highly regulated affairs in which more time was spent ensuring that there'd be no historical interference than actually seeing anything. In short, Tessa found it boring-so she stole a time machine and decided to explore on her own. She freely interacts with historical figures and events. Thus far, her antics haven't destroyed the timeline, but she's come close several times. Tessa never stays in one place for long, as the time police are on her trail.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, focal, humorous=455***=Moidan Lazaros=Deranged Prophet="If you truly believe, you will achieve immortality through suffering-like me."=Appearance: Moidan is a portly man with sunken eyes and cabbage-like ears. He wears a ragged flight suit that, quite pointedly, is missing its helmet.=Roleplaying: He never wears a seat belt, ignores signs that say "Danger: Blast Area," and generally has no sense of self preservation whatsoever.=Personality: Moidan is a deeply faithful man, and were it not for his underlying insanity, he would have made an excellent preacher. But as the Prophet Spared by God, he believes he's immortal-and that he has the power to confer immortality onto his followers, if they prove themselves worthy.=Motivation: Already a perfect being, Moidan wants to help others achieve enlightenment through suffering.=Background: Five years ago, Moidan was accidentally ejected into the vacuum of space during a training exercise-and survived. Believing God had made him immortal, he now thinks he can do anything, no matter how crazy or dangerous, without getting killed. Not a thrill-seeker by nature, he chose instead to become a prophet of the Doctrine of Trials. Initiates in his cult must undergo a series of trials that become more and more dangerous, culminating in the Twelfth Trial: being ejected into space. Moidan wants his followers to succeed and attain enlightenment, but despite good intentions, he's still a menace. His cult has been chased out of several star systems over the past few years.=Traits: (MR) Leader, occult, notorious, zealot=456***=Mel Lydons=Stressed-Out CEO="Nothing relaxes quite as well as complete surrender."=Appearance: A portly businessman with ashen hair, gray-blue eyes and a conservative monochromatic wardrobe, Mel might look like he just stepped out of an old black and white photograph if it weren't for his ever present handheld computer.=Roleplaying: Mel dominates conversations, makes decisions quickly, and expects others to follow his orders. He often talks over other people, but occasionally spaces out for no apparent reason.=Personality: Normally an alpha male but badly stressed out from pressure and a fast-paced lifestyle, Mel appreciates letting go and relaxing in any way possible.=Motivation: An addict, Mel just wants to get work out of the way so he can get his next fix.=Background: Mel is a high-powered executive in charge of a large company, a job that has become ever more stressful thanks to the efforts of a cadre of mutinous middle managers that is subtly sabotaging the company. Searching for ways to relax, Mel discovered a service that uses data jacks to completely dominate their clients. Now completely addicted, Mel uses it for quick fixes several times a day and all of most evenings. His habit is a serious security risk for his company; if it were to be discovered it would be excellent ammunition for his opponents.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, business, leader, wealthy=457***=Anjelica Danvor =Ruthless Pilot="When you are up there, there are only a few centimeters of metal separating you from the icy void. One wrong move and you'll be burning up in atmo. Which is why, if you cross me, I will not hesitate to bring you down first."=Appearance: Tall and beautiful, Anjelica has a classic hourglass figure and flowing brown hair. Her eyes are large, deep, and blue. Her smile is a seductive mixture of inviting and dangerous.=Roleplaying: Anjelica will scold anyone who complains. She never says anything comforting to anyone and is uncomfortable in emotionally charged situations.=Personality: She is not very compassionate, bordering on cruel. She detests those who break the law and takes quiet pleasure in any criminal who suffers for his crimes. Outside of work, Anjelica has a habit of burning through lovers; her lack of compassion poisons most relationships.=Motivation: She is career-minded and is looking to rise up the chain of command. Personally, she enjoys inflicting some pain on the guilty. =Background: A neglected child who came from a turbulent home, Anjelica never had a healthy relationship. She enrolled in the police force in part for a promising job and in part to carry out her fantasies of inflicting pain on criminals. She earned a position on orbital patrol, looking for smugglers. Once, Anjelica destroyed an illegal refugee transport trying to run a planetary blockade, cementing her reputation as a "cold, hard bitch."=Traits: (PV) Beautiful, pilot, police	=458***=Tiana Skye=Exuberant Wilderness Guide="It feels good to be away from the colony. I love the sounds of nature. They make me feel so alive!"=Appearance: An athletic woman with a worker's hands, Tiana usually wears sports clothes and keeps her hair tied back. She also wears eye contacts that automatically tint to shield her eyes from her world's bright suns. Tiana usually has a bandage or two somewhere on her body.=Roleplaying: Tiana is effusive whenever she's outdoors and in nature. She encourages her companions to explore and take the less traveled paths. =Personality: A bit of a technophobe, Tiana feels that too much technology separates people from nature. She only uses the minimal tools she needs to survive in the wilderness.=Motivation: She enjoys living in nature. She generally acts as a guide to colonists and visitors.=Background: Tiana was born on Java Nova, a hot, wet world with numerous rainforests. The planet hosts a few colonies and Tiana was trained to act as a guide, traveling between them. She also offers nature tours to off-worlders. The more time she spends in the wilderness, the less she likes returning to civilization. When in nature, Tiana acts like it's a big game; she is animated and excited. She tries to share her enthusiasm with her fellow travelers, usually with mixed results.=Traits: (WC) Merchant, outdoorsman, primal=459***=Lao Jun, "Patient 16"=Psychic Child="I want my mommy! Bad man couldn't help me, he ‘sploded. You help me?"=Appearance: Small for his age, Lao has medium-brown skin, straight black hair, and an overly large forehead. When he's angry, veins stand out all over his face and his eyes glow bright blue.=Roleplaying: He's eerily calm most of the time, but when he's scared or angry he transitions directly into a frothing, out-of-control rage.=Personality: Lao doesn't like hurting people, so he's learned to try and keep himself calm-but he can't help his aching head, short temper, and poor impulse control (he's only six, after all). He's a lost little boy in search of his parents, and he'll latch onto anyone who he thinks can help find them.=Motivation: Lao wants to find his parents so that they can take him somewhere warm and safe and love him forever and ever.=Background: Moments after he was born, Lao was whisked away from his parents and taken to a secret hospital to be raised by mysterious scientists. Six years later, Patient 16 walked out of the hospital, unharmed, as the building collapsed around him. Now he wanders the world in search of his birth parents, possessing tremendous psychic powers he doesn't know how to control. Whenever he's angry or in pain, he lashes out unconsciously at everyone in the vicinity, making him incredibly dangerous. Worse still, his power appears to be growing-and the longer he goes without finding his parents, the angrier and less stable he becomes.=Traits: (MR) Child, magical, mysterious, primal=460***=Creeger the Avenger=Self-Appointed General="You want to kill something? Then let's take the fight to those that caused this. Onward to the capital!"=Appearance: He has the look of a veteran soldier: graying, clean-shaven, barrel-chested, and wearing an Army service uniform. He carries a gleaming silver World War II-style helmet.=Roleplaying: He quotes liberally from war movies, delivering one cliché after another when addressing troops.=Personality: Creeger is angry at himself for surviving and angry at the world for robbing him of his life and those he loved.=Motivation: He can't bring himself to commit suicide outright, so he places himself at the front of the battle, fighting recklessly in the hopes he will be killed in action.=Background: He was a delivery person for a grocery when the "aPOXalypse" took place, a disease that killed 90% of humanity. He couldn't bear to live on, so he formed an army, saying he was marching on the capital. He thought his ragtag group would be defeated by other marauders or by remnants of the real armed forces. Instead his force prevailed and gained strength, bolstered by his fearless fighting style. Now he leads a true army, though he has no idea what will happen when they actually reach their destination. He hopes, though, that he will be dead long before then.=Traits: (TT) Aggressive, military=461***=Drake Alexis=Bitter Doctor="Sure, I can patch that arm up-even improve it. It just won't be cheap."=Appearance: Drake is short, balding, and thin, and usually has a sour odor. One of his gray eyes is constantly obscured by his diagnostic monocle, and his mouth relaxes into a sneer when he's not concentrating.=Roleplaying: He stares off into space consulting his databases, scratching absently. His diagnostic monocle is always a blur of colors and numbers, making it hard for others to focus on his eyes.=Personality: Drake is not popular; his barbs and sneers drive away all but those who need his services. It often seems like he's examining people like an insect.=Motivation: Life kicked him in the teeth several times, so Drake makes sure that he doesn't leave much exposed for the next blow.=Background: Drake grew up on the wrong side of the tracks, a bright kid with a head for numbers trapped in a world of taunting and beatings. He finally escaped, whisked away into a corporate school where his new peers scorned him for his poverty and lack of connections. One prank left him infected with an itch that never has gone away. Drake turned to betting to stretch his money, but wound up indebted to criminals. He left medical school when he was caught stealing supplies, so he's now patching up criminals under the table, taking notes, and seeking enough power for targeted revenge.=Traits: (SM) Criminal, medic, power hungry=462***=Raul Cintes=Amorous Space Pirate="If you are one of the beautiful ladies, then maybe we can negotiate."=Appearance: Raul wears exaggerated, old-Earth style pirate clothing that shows off his bare chest. He is tall and skinny with a pointed goatee and a bald head.=Roleplaying: Raul speaks with a strong accent and makes dramatic poses for no apparent reason. He is over-the-top in all of his actions, especially when he is wooing the beautiful ladies-and Raul is always wooing the beautiful ladies.=Personality: Outgoing and over-the-top, Raul has a charm that defies explanation.=Motivation: One day he thinks he might want to be captain of his own ship, but for now Raul is happy to seek adventure and amorous encounters under someone else's flag. It is much less work that way.=Background: Few who stalk the cargo lanes and take the name "pirate" really go in for all of the myth and pomp that surrounds the calling. Raul, however, is a rationalist and believes that if he is to be a pirate in name, he should be one in look and style. Raul has researched pirates through history books and entertainment media, and he is having a blast acting out his own twisted version of it. Many of the captains Raul has worked under enjoy having him onboard. He is good and hardworking, and his antics raise morale amongst the other crew members.=Traits: (JA) Adventurer, criminal, humorous=463***=Amelia Lourve=Inspiring Dauphine="The advantage of youth is that I do not know what cannot be done."=Appearance: Diminutive in size, her golden hair is braided in a large bun secured to the top of her head by hairpins. She wears businesslike boots and tight-fitting synthweave clothing, buttoned up. Her small, gloved hands are perched defiantly upon her hips.=Roleplaying: Amelia glares constantly like a predator stalking its prey. She's prone to dismiss ideas that push against her agenda and speaks with conviction, having found her voice.=Personality: She has a difficult time reconciling that others look to her to lead with the fact that her youth deprives her of experience. Amelia is prone to frustration, having been thrust into a role that she did not desire, sometimes wishing to simply be a normal child.=Motivation: She leads by example and will champion those that rely upon her. She stands against tyranny and seeks to influence those that could prove useful to the cause.=Background: Their youngest daughter sequestered away after birth, the royal Lourve family was seemingly wiped out by rival factions. A daunting resistance revealed itself, with Amelia at the lead, and took back their ancestral homeland with ruthless vengeance. The young child-warrior grew up on the field of battle, witnessing death much earlier than most. This has strengthened her resolve to avoid conflict and tempered her into a skillful leader and politician. She searches for surviving family members still.=Traits: (DM) Child, leader, royalty, warrior=464***=Felix Adap=Tabloid Journalist="Bat boy was the big seller. You could slap a picture of him on the home page and get a million hits on the global feeds easily. But then he came out about being an albino mole boy who just happened to look like a bat and that golden goose stopped laying eggs. Hold on… I just saw our favorite starlet's PR droid hover into that plastic surgery and genetic makeover clinic. Hand me my recorder, will ya?"=Appearance: He is handsome and in good shape. Several battery packs on his belt power his four-dimensional recording device.=Roleplaying: He asks lots of loaded questions like "Why didn't you go out partying last night?" because regardless of the answer it suggests that the person behaves in a certain way.=Personality: Felix is a bitter and sarcastic person who enjoys tearing down others in public.=Motivation: He tried to make it as an actor himself, but he didn't have the talent. Now he wants to ruin the fame of those who have it.=Background: Years ago Felix auditioned for every role that he could find and was always turned down. Instead of improving his acting, he began digging up dirt on his competition, hoping to eliminate them from the business. His plan failed, but a local tabloid paper saw potential in him.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, charming, entertainment, notorious=465***=Howard Pendleton=Adolescent Scientist="What do you mean I have to go into time out? Someday I'll own every one of you!"=Appearance: Howard is a towheaded, dumpy 12-year-old boy with freckles, oversized glasses, and a perpetual sneer. =Roleplaying: Apparently spoiled beyond belief, Howard constantly whines and complains. He demands whatever he wants, belittles those around him, and disregards any and all rules he doesn't like. He quickly descends into furious, foul-mouthed rants.=Personality: Once a rich business mogul and brilliant scientist, Howard feels he should be treated the way he's accustomed to. Frustrated by his predicament, it takes little to push him over the edge.=Motivation: Howard wants to reverse his de-aging and return to his former status.=Background: The head scientist at a bio-tech firm, Howard was working on a regeneration serum. A lab accident caused him to physically regress into a 12-year-old boy. Realizing this could be a modern day fountain of youth, and not wanting to share the credit or money, he stole the prototype formula, burned the lab, and staged his own death. He relocated with his wife, who now poses as his mother and treats him like her son-even in private. Despite lacking resources, Howard is working furiously to reverse engineer his stolen samples and fix his condition, and has failed repeatedly. In bouts of petty anger he has begun to lash out at those he does not like by staging humiliating and dangerous accidents.=Traits: (MN) Child, focal, genius, humorous, scientist=466***=Alistair Altair=Fearful Academic="This odd-looking material here appears to be some kind of advanced quasi-organic data storage matrix. Or it could be a high explosive. Or maybe a culture medium for a flesh-eating plague. Or..."=Appearance: Tall and thin with a constant sniffle and unruly hair, he is never without a sizable backpack full of scientific and engineering tools, from spectrum analyzers to simple test tubes.=Roleplaying: Pessimistic to a fault, he can always see the worst possible outcome to any situation, and talk about it at length.=Personality: His intelligence makes him keenly aware of how everything could possibly go wrong.=Motivation: He needs to survive enough adventures and make enough money to go back to school, where he belongs.=Background: Alistair could never settle on one discipline. After collecting partial degrees in everything from xenoculture to subspace engineering to surgical neurografting, he ran out of money. Drowning his sorrows in a spaceport bar, he befriended a group of travelers by fixing their broken comm links. He was hired on the spot, and spent a nervous but lucrative tour with the group. Recognizing the value of his knowledge-and the wealth out among the stars-he has hired out on a number of ships. His goal is to go back to college, though he is slowly coming around to the fact that he may have turned into an adventurer without realizing it.=Traits: (KS) Academic, genius, medic, scholar, scientist=467***=Misha Belryn=Stimulating Interrogator ="I'm sorry. Are you distracted by my long legs? The way they move as I walk to and fro? What would you do to run your hands along these smooth calves? Would you tell me where the ship is harbored?"=Appearance: Outside of the interrogation room, Misha is average height with short blond hair and green eyes. In the interrogation room, her looks change and she becomes the most beautiful woman her subject desires.=Roleplaying: When she is not working, she is painfully shy, with a meek voice, and often avoids eye contact. During interrogations, her mannerisms are altered by her implants based on her subject's psyche.=Personality: Misha's true personality is pleasant and simple. She emits a palpable aura of sensuality during interrogations. =Motivation: She does what she needs to out of duty, but her implants make the discovery of secrets a stimulation that is nearly sexual, and one that she has begun to crave more and more.=Background: Misha was an unexceptional police cadet who was heading for an administration position. She was selected for a program which gave her a series of implants that allow her to tune into the sexual desires of a person and alter her physiology to match. She now lives two lives: her plain life outside of the interrogation room and her charged role extracting confessions. Secretly, she has begun to use her implants to pursue lovers who are not suspects.=Traits: (PV) Beautiful, counselor, magical, police=468***=Jeremiah Quinn=Cyborg Bounty-Hunter="Even mechanical parts get rusty, but it's better than being out of the game."=Appearance: Much of Jeremiah's body has been replaced by machinery and combat enhancements, but his square and scruff-covered jaw remains visible.=Roleplaying: Jeremiah is a mercenary who refused to give up the game as he got older. He will use his mechanical parts to the best advantage in a combat, but he is hard to get along with. He longs for human connections, but no longer knows how to make them.=Personality: Grumpy and coarse, Jeremiah takes umbrage with any who call him too old, but flashes of realization at his lost humanity can send him into temporary fugue.=Motivation: Jeremiah is looking for something, possibly a good death. He never wants to show weakness and strives to be the best member of any team he is in.=Background: Jeremiah was good-really good. There were few bounties that could escape him in his younger days, but age takes everyone; Jeremiah found himself succumbing to it despite the rejuvenation treatments and health drugs that were popular back then. Having no family or other connections, Jeremiah opted to surgically enhance his body with mechanical parts in order to keep hunting. It worked, but he feels more humanity slip away each day, and he is beginning to realize exactly what he's lost. Jeremiah might be a good source of information for the party, or they might meet him while chasing a bounty.=Traits: (JA) Aggressive, military, warrior=469***=Private Sol Collins=Macho Marine="I can't believe that I'm babysitting a bunch of farmers. I joined the corps to fight, damn it!"=Appearance: Sol is a hardcore galactic marine. He keeps his hair short, sports the corps insignia and his squad tattoos on his forearms, and is rarely out of uniform. He has a military posture when he is standing still as well as when walking.=Roleplaying: He enjoys barking orders at people, especially civilians. He wears his frustration on his sleeve and isn't afraid to let people know just how he feels about being assigned to the "armpit of the galaxy."=Personality: Sol's aggressive, macho behavior hides a sensitive soul that wouldn't hurt a flea. He'd rather be an artist and spends his off duty time decorating the sides of buildings.=Motivation: He wants to convince people that he's a macho marine.=Background: Sol wanted to be an artist, but family pressures and his naturally large frame led Sol to join the galactic marines. Sol excelled at boot camp but his instructor noted that he lacked a "fighting spirit." The drill instructor recommended that Sol be transferred to a "safe" position, so Sol was sent to New Sudan. On some level Sol realizes that he was put here for a reason, but he hides it under marine bravado. The artist still lives within, and Sol occasionally produces a great work of art when he isn't patrolling the colony's farmlands.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, artist, military=470***=Oryon Andersen=Terminally Ill Idealist="Here, take this check for a million dollars. No, I mean it-no strings attached. Put your kids through college."=Appearance: Infected with an alien virus, Oryon looks normal except for his eyes, which are bright purple and pupil-less. He wears a rumpled $50,000 suit and carries a golden briefcase.=Roleplaying: Accustomed to being a ruthless businessman, Oryon starts every interaction acting like an angry, aggressive bull, and then quickly catches himself and becomes magnanimous and affable.=Personality: Oryon used to be renowned for his ruthlessness, but something clicked in his brain when he received his final diagnosis. He doesn't know how to be a kind and generous person, but he's trying his best. He knows he can't change overnight, but he can still make a difference through his money.=Motivation: Oryon wants to become a better man while curing the world's ills.=Background: A wealthy trade magnate, Oryon picked up a terminal, incurable alien virus on his travels, and he now has only a few months to live. He's hale and not contagious, so he's spending the time he has left trying to be the best man he can be. He's making enormous donations to charity, giving huge sums to complete strangers, setting up foundations to help the poor, and otherwise acting like a saint. He doesn't care about his legacy, he just wants to make a difference in the world. Ever pragmatic, Oryon is accompanied by four bodyguards.=Traits: (MR) Business, saintly, wealthy=471***=Kade Suraj=Inexperienced CEO ="I'm the owner of this company and I make all the decisions! So tell me, Marina, how should I handle this?"=Appearance: Still a youth by most standards, Kade tries to act like a corporate executive but he comes off stiff and awkward. His clothes are actually quite fashionable, having been selected by Marina. He usually has a distant look on his face during executive meetings.=Roleplaying: Kade tries too hard to act like he's the decision-maker, although he'll dance around making a decision until he's consulted with Marina. He is a font of information on sports.=Personality: He knows he's in over his head; that's why he leans on Marina. His insecurities have given him an abrasive personality. =Motivation: He wants to succeed like his mother and take the company forward.=Background: Kade is the son of Victoria Suraj, the former owner of the company. Kade was a spoiled child who was technically the vice-president of the company, but allowed his mother to make all of his decisions. That changed when an errant meteor struck his mother's shuttle, killing her and leaving an 18-year-old Kade in control of the Company. With no work experience, Kade relied heavily on his mother's assistant, Marina Kapoor. In truth, Marina has been running the company ever since, keeping it solvent while Kade mopes in his office. Kade wants to be taken seriously but fears losing Marina.=Traits: (WC) Business, leader=472***=Senator Jane Dickerson=Humbled Refugee="On his deathbed, the president tried to pass his powers onto me. By then, it was too late. We could only pray as our republic ended."=Appearance: Disheveled and road-weary, with most of her clothes in tatters and her right arm in a sling, she still carries herself with a regal, senatorial bearing. Her aquiline profile still hints at the power and position she once held.=Roleplaying: Jane clears her throat before speaking, just as she did before making pronouncements from the well of the Senate chamber.=Personality: She is humbled by the events of the "aPOXalypse," not sure if the government had a role in unleashing the disease that killed 90% of the population. She also is moved by how she was accepted-not scorned-by the survivors that have banded together.=Motivation: She is just trying to survive from one day to the next. But as the weeks pass and the people yearn for leadership, Jane finds herself stepping forward to provide advice.=Background: She served four terms as a U.S. senator, unable to return to her home state because of travel restrictions during the outbreak. In the final days, she was among a handful left running the federal government. When it was clear their authority had eroded and communications were lost, she embarked with others for a new life.=Traits: (TT) Famous, leader, political=473***=Mare Agnesi=Burned-Out Inventor="Why should I? So some detrivore with a law degree can claim that his idiot of a client had the idea first, and steal the rights from me?"=Appearance: A very old woman, Mare walks down the street with the energy of someone half her age. A fine network of metal tracery is barely visible beneath her skin.=Roleplaying: Her sharp but intelligent retorts reveal an undercurrent of anger and frustration. =Personality: She's mad at the world for stealing her inventions. She still invents, but does not readily share her ideas.=Motivation: She enjoys the challenge of research and development, but isn't interested in selling or even lending out her inventions.=Background: A gifted student, Mare studied and researched her way into leading a cutting-edge research lab for a major corporation. She launched her own company, convinced that doing so would grant her more freedom and earn her more money. Initially extremely successful, her company was betrayed by its own attorneys, who were rumored to have been paid off by her former employer. After the dust had settled, Mare was left with a pile of debt, a grudge against attorneys, and a reputation for being half-crazy. She retreated into herself, finally settling her debts and purchasing a remote home/lab complex with earnings from consulting gigs. She continues her work alone, hiding behind her reputation as a half-crazed old lady.=Traits: (KS) Academic, ancient, eccentric, genius, scientist=474***=Samara Toscin=Vengeful Artist="The red swoop there is correct, but see the ventral strokes? Wrong angle-this isn't my prey."=Appearance: She's a thin teenage girl, with eyes slightly askew-one artificial-and a face that's a patchwork of scars and depressions. Her black hair is lank and unwashed, with green eyes clouded by painkillers-except on the hunt.=Roleplaying: Samara's voice catches as she swallows pain or fury. Her street slang is a poor imitation, filled with too much privileged vocabulary.=Personality: She watches carefully, examining details with an artist's eye, all to locate her prey.=Motivation: Her gilded life was ripped from her; each person's shudder of revulsion on seeing her redoubles her resolve to pay back her assailant.=Background: By age six, Samara was composing pieces that were seriously considered for inclusion in local art installations; by her teens, her pieces were usually included. She began escaping at night and painting the city-her elegant art twisting into and complementing local gang tags. Until one night she twisted the wrong tag, and got worked over by the original artist and his friends, who stumbled on her halfway through the piece. Her face proved impossible to repair, leaving peaks and soft pockets, turning her hideous-and filling her with fury. After recovering and learning the use of her new eye, she again sneaks out at night to hunt the boys who beat her. They have a lot to pay for.=Traits: (SM) Adventurer, artist, hideous, wealthy=475***=Pierce Salmon=Well-Traveled Guide="‘The one-legged crane strikes swiftly in the night.' Well, that's what she said. Might have been a tiger."=Appearance: He wears a beaten leather duster covered in cuts and tears, and a dirty top hat with a silk band around the brim. His pockmarked face is weathered and leathery in appearance, covered in white stubble. He leans upon a large walking stick that is formed out of various pieces of metal and which looks vaguely like a rifle.=Roleplaying: Pierce spits with reckless abandon during conversation and is prone to using colorful metaphors. His speech is littered with curious idioms that make little sense, but that he somehow tenuously ties to the situation.=Personality: He's too stubborn to die and seemingly has nine lives and lust for life. Pierce always has a parable to tell when the situation looks grim and is a source of inspiration or laughs. Pierce doesn't care about material objects at all beyond his makeshift rifle, which he wields with deadly accuracy.=Motivation: He'll live on his own terms until he can't anymore. Pierce has no desire to go quietly into the night.=Background: A wanderer and carefree spirit, Pierce had some success as a soldier-of-fortune. That was over 40 years ago. Now he roams the wastelands helping strangers or generally making an annoyance of himself. He's danced with queens and seen spectacular sights, and he shares it all with vibrant recollection.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, eccentric, humorous=476***=Gabby McCullah=Incompetent Tech="We'll figure out the problem if it takes all night. We just have to keep replacing parts."=Appearance: Gabby is a sturdy woman with kinky auburn hair, gray-blue eyes and a bulbous nose. She generally wears standard blue overalls to keep her clean when she's crawling around behind access panels and under workstations.=Roleplaying: Chatty to the point of it interfering with her duties, Gabby's pleasant nature can quickly turn petty if she's annoyed or slighted.=Personality: Bull-headed and persistent, Gabby isn't one to back down from a challenge. She works hard, not smart, often spending much more effort and time on a task than it requires because she refuses to ask for help or consult documentation.=Motivation: Gabby wants to be recognized for her hard work, and expects others to overlook the generally poor quality of her output.=Background: Family-trained for most of her life, with several years' professional experience under her belt, Gabby doesn't really know as much as she thinks she does about her job. Too stubborn to admit defeat and seek help or try a new career, she continues to work exhausting schedules over minor issues and attempt simple jobs multiple times until she gets it right. Though she is clearly improving over time, with her inability to learn through any system other than trial and error, it's unlikely she will ever be exceptional.=Traits: (MN) Business, crafter=477***=Dora Calveretti=Weary Union Leader="Look, I'll try to get your sick days honored, but I'm fighting battles on four different fronts right now. We need to get the safety situation dealt with first."=Appearance: Dora's time in the mines has not treated her well. A mining accident left her with a robotic arm, and years of hard work have left her tired and worn out. Her curly brown hair is full of dust, and her coveralls are always dirty despite her working behind a desk.=Roleplaying: Weariness is all that shows on Dora's face, but when she storms into the manager's office with some new safety violation, she is like a storm unleashed.=Personality: Dora is tired from her many years in the mines and her time fighting management. She gets motivated about miners' rights and refuses to back down from tough challenges.=Motivation: Dora's main concern is better safety conditions within the mines, but she fights furiously for anything that can make the miners' lives better.=Background: When the accident took Dora's arm, it took her out of the only trade she knew. Realizing that the company used the mine's remote location on a far-off moon to ignore proper safety conditions, she went to the union leader. He did nothing about it, just as he was bribed to do. Dora ousted the union leader and stepped into his shoes, taking the first step on her crusade for better, safer conditions.=Traits: (JA) Leader, laborer, political=478***=Arielle Stardancer=Manipulative Dancer="I'm paying my way through law school. Why don't you buy me a drink and tell me what you do, handsome."=Appearance: Men's hearts often skip a beat when this stunning blond woman approaches their table, smiling directly at them. Her eyes seem to see right through people.=Roleplaying: Flirtatious and charming, she knows her weapons and wields them very effectively.=Personality: Beneath the self-centered stereotype, she is a closet romantic, and will do nearly anything to help out children in need.=Motivation: She only has so much time to make her mark in the world before age catches up. She has sworn that she will never again be without food or shelter.=Background: Although she'll never admit it, she's the daughter of an upper middle-class family, and had a comfortable upbringing until her businessman father was framed for embezzlement. She walked in on his staged suicide, and her world collapsed around her. She ran away a few years later, unable to watch as her mother slowly fell apart. She's been dancing ever since, and has developed an extensive repertoire of social skills, including an uncanny sense of empathy that lets her say just the right thing at just the right time. She suspects that her father was framed, but has no evidence. If she does find out that he was framed, she will seek revenge.=Traits: (KS) Beautiful, charming, entertainment=479***=Katrina "Star Kitty" Montescu=Body-Mod Celebrity="There's nothing sexier than a cat in heat, don't you agree?"=Appearance: Star Kitty is a cute young woman who has undergone extensive body modification. She has catlike pupils (and excellent night vision), short white fur with tiger stripes, sharp teeth and claws, and a bionic tail. =Roleplaying: She is seductive and likes to lightly drag her claws on anyone she's speaking with. She peppers her speech with innuendoes and purrs. She enjoys flaunting her feline body, even if it makes people uncomfortable.=Personality: Star Kitty is a bit of a free spirit. She enjoys fast romances but gets bored easily. She plays hard because she works hard and, in spite of her appearance, Star Kitty puts her job before everything else.=Motivation: She enjoys playing her role, and singing.=Background: Katrina "Star Kitty" Montescu has always had a playful personality. She learned early on that she had a great singing voice and signed with a holo-vid studio. Star Kitty enjoyed dressing like an anthropomorphic cat as her trademark and, as time went on, began using her money to truly transform herself into her "ideal" form. While this transformation worries some of her old friends and family, Star Kitty fully enjoys her new body and never lacks for company. She's even spawned an entire subculture of "kittens" who emulate her as best they can. Because of her celebrity and quirky nature, few doors are closed to her.=Traits: (WC) Beautiful, charming, eccentric, entertainment=480***=Jordan Lyndsey=Starving Salesman="This here's a ship! Ain't no shielding coming offa this here ship!" <thunk, thunk, crash!> "That ain't no ship...this here's a ship!" =Appearance: Jordan has tired bagged eyes and a constant five o'clock shadow on his face. His deeply cleft chin would lend him a rugged handsomeness if he weren't so obviously exhausted and defeated.=Roleplaying: A fast talker with a horrible poker face, Jordan is pushy and repeats himself often. His speech and mannerisms are pleading and he's not above wheedling, whining, and begging to make a sale.=Personality: Desperate and weary, Jordan is a failure and knows it. He lives in fear of the day that he'll be handed a pink slip for being unable to move enough ships to appease management.=Motivation: All Jordan wants to do is close this sale and start schlepping his way to the next one.=Background: An awful salesman, Jordan is constantly one paycheck away from disaster. This desperation lends him a pathetic intensity which he wields like a cudgel to bludgeon potential customers into buying. He wasn't always like this. Years ago he was one of his company's best salesmen, but a succession of personal trials left him unable to close the deal and made his life a constant struggle.=Traits: (MN) Business, humorous, impoverished, white collar=481***=Secretary Denise Vaya=Political Puppet="I think it is unfair to say that the contract was awarded solely because of the President's affiliation with the StarMax corporation. StarMax still makes the best bio-computer processors in the solar system. Next question… No, I did not know that StarMax ranked below five other competitors for quality."=Appearance: She wears a simple black body suit, high heels, and a black jacket. Her hair is cut short and slicked back, and she exhibits a timeless beauty.=Roleplaying: In public, she smiles and nods, but in private she is making panicked calls to the various powers she answers to.=Personality: Denise is not stupid: She's incredibly intelligent, but she's not assertive or confident. Sadly, she does an excellent job of portraying such a person.=Motivation: She wants to help the poor people from the mining colonies in the asteroid belt where she was born.=Background: Denise Vaya was raised in squalid conditions, but she was such a beautiful child that her father realized it could be her ticket out of the slums. After she won a local beauty pageant, he helped her become a model, which paid for her college tuition. Her father died soon after she graduated, and Denise became a social activist. A powerful politician recognized her significant talents and brought her on as press secretary-a position that filled her purse and dampened her spirits. Once an ambitious idealist, she is now merely the mouthpiece of a political machine.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, political, white collar=482***=Leona Vinge=Dogmatic Colonist="The Bright Book doesn't care what you want. Go cleanse yourself, and don't return until you've given up this foolish idea of asking outsiders for help. God will provide."=Appearance: Leona is short, round, and unremarkable looking. Her appearance gives strangers no hint of the iron will and inner fire that drives her. She dresses as plainly as possible.=Roleplaying: She talks about the Bright Book, God, and "the right course" constantly-her only mode is "preaching," and there is no off switch.=Personality: Leona sleeps for three hours a night, has no personal effects, and truly believes that the only path to success is the one outlined in the Bright Book, her sect's religious text. She craves control (not power, although with control comes power) and uses religion to get it.=Motivation: Leona knows that without her steady hand on the tiller, the colony would have failed long ago. She will always be there to tell the colonists how to live.=Background: The spiritual leader of the Falkirk VII colony, New Falkirk, Leona believes that dogma leads to truth-follow the motions, do everything exactly as the Bright Book says, and success is inevitable. She's a source of great strength for the colony. No one likes her-though they all fear and respect her. Despite the colony having a secular leader, everyone knows the real power in New Falkirk is Leona.=Traits: (MR) Leader, notorious, religious, zealot=483***=Royce Baris=Conspiring Executive="Do you think that you made some kind of bad business decision? For the past five years, every decision you have made was in response to something I set before your path. Your decisions were sound; you were just unaware their sum would lead you to this day. Now sign."=Appearance: Royce's look transcends genetics, having been purchased on the finest orbitals. He has no physical flaws. He dresses in the most expensive orbital-grown silks.=Roleplaying: Moving like a predatory animal, Royce surveys rooms with his gaze, and strides forth into any room as the dominant alpha male. =Personality: The cool exterior and perfect looks are the shell of a man whose mind never stops plotting and planning. Every interaction with a person is analyzed for opportunities. He plays out various scenarios in every waking moment. =Motivation: He is a corporate shark, always hunting the next acquisition. He has no love for his work, only the conquest.=Background: Royce was an experiment by the corporation to genetically design a superior executive. He was raised by the corporation and given the finest education. Upon graduation he was assigned the most ruthless mentor, who taught him the art of corporate acquisition. He was a quick study and quickly became a weapon for the corporation. Where force cannot be used to remove or acquire a rival, Royce is sent in to engineer their fall. =Traits: (PV) Aggressive, business, power hungry, white collar=484***=Elizabeth Bachman=Unintentional Freedom Fighter="Yes, I am the owner, programming director, and sole journalist for the broadcast feed ‘Truth Seekers.' I'm under arrest for disturbing the public optimism? I understand. I will cooperate. No, I will not plead guilty. I said that I would cooperate. I never said that I would be compliant."=Appearance: Her dark skin is dull and her eyes are tired. Wrinkles are beginning to appear on her face at an early age. She wears her hair in dreadlocks, and wears a recording device with a camera over her right ear.=Roleplaying: Elizabeth is polite, and speaks softly and without bravado. She appears nervous, but shows an unusual courage and deep sincerity. Her wrists bear the marks left by police restraints that were applied too tightly.=Personality: She is a mild-mannered person who does not seem to enjoy her celebrity (or infamy, depending on who you ask) at all.=Motivation: She seeks to empower the people with the truth hoping that they will take action to change things for the better.=Background: Elizabeth once worked for the current government regime. She monitored all broadcasts and jammed any that threatened the public optimism. This included information regarding food shortages, police brutality, and failures of the colony's biodomes to protect citizens from the poisonous atmosphere of the planet. She jammed these broadcasts even though they were true, until one day she started a broadcast of her own, because someone had to tell the truth.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, business, merchant, notorious=485***=Darris Denali=Direct Occultist="Our calculations show that the underlying structure is changing at an accelerating rate, creating this crisis of opportunity. We must seize it."=Appearance: Darris is wild-eyed, with frizzy dark hair and chunky glasses. His pallor is fish-belly white, contrasting sharply with the symbols tattooed on his skin. =Roleplaying: He explains everything in great detail. All events are as calculations predicted; his pad shows pages of densely packed numbers, revealing that these events were long foretold.=Personality: Few have the stamina to look the universe in the face, to understand the chasm at its center. People want to ignore the truth, but that only signals that he needs a simpler or more direct presentation. =Motivation: Death unlocked the secrets of the universe, and he's back to explain them.=Background: Darris died for the first time in his twenties. When he was revived, he had a sudden new facility for math-and a new fetish for self-representation. Over the next dozen years he studied the Kabbalah and began tattooing himself with the seraphim and key symbols. He began to graph his calculations, creating unusually disturbing art. A cult grew up around his simple, direct pronouncements. He began exchanging calculations with other occult experts. Their figures agree: life in the universe is nearing a turning point, one that must be confronted. Darris requires transport for this meeting that will change everything.=Traits: (SM) Artist, eccentric, hideous, occult=486***=Colonel Caryn Jaeger=Rigid Station Commander="Tell them to behave or I'll push them out of an airlock. What do you mean, I can't do that?"=Appearance: Caryn usually wears her duty uniform. If forced to wear her station commander dress uniform she looks very uncomfortable. Caryn has premature wrinkles from the stresses of command and sports several scars on her body.=Roleplaying: She has a stern and direct delivery. She expects her wishes to be carried out without question. She sees compromise as a weakness, although she'll begrudgingly give in if the argument is persuasive.=Personality: Caryn has an officer's perspective. For most of her term as station commander she's run the space station like a military vessel. Now that the sector is becoming more civilized she's having difficulty playing politician.=Motivation: She knows that she should retire, but she fears retirement. Thus, she's motivated to try and play politician, even though she's terrible at it.=Background: Since she joined the galactic army, Caryn has fought in many battles. She quickly rose through the ranks and when the frontier governor needed an officer to run the most remote station, he selected Caryn without hesitation. For the last decade, Caryn ran the station with brutal efficiency. Unfortunately for her, boundaries move and the station is now a hub between the core and the new frontier. She's had to adjust her leadership style to accommodate the new reality, and thus far she's doing a poor job of it.=Traits: (WC) Leader, military, notorious, political=487***=River Starchild=Interstellar Hippie="You're really harshing my mellow."=Appearance: A lithe young woman, River has long blond hair down to her knees, wears floral themed jewelry, and has small, multipurpose chemical-analysis and dispenser implants.=Roleplaying: River always seems to be a bit under the influence of some kind of illegal substance. She smiles, flirts, and cuddles up to whoever seems the most susceptible to her charms.=Personality: More of a thrill seeker than an addict, River dabbles in a number of "feel good" drugs and vices and is willing to try almost anything once. She is laid-back and casual and has a difficult time taking anything seriously.=Motivation: River enjoys drifting along wherever the space-winds take her, and only puts effort into getting men to give her gifts or scoring a new type of high.=Background: Raised in a religious orphanage, River escaped as soon as she turned 18. After dating several men, and learning how to manipulate them to get what she wanted, she met another young lady named Amber and the two became friends. Amber was a musician, and brought River along on several tours with her band. Enjoying the fast lifestyle, but not willing to actually work for it, River eventually met up with a small commune of space hippies and joined their ranks. Claiming to be religious pilgrims as a cover, they travel the stars searching for new vibes and good drugs.  =Traits: (MN) beautiful, charming, humorous, impoverished=488***=Maximillian Ellis=Unrelenting Xeno-Acquisitions Manager="The spoils of the future belong to those willing to seize the reins of innovation today!"=Appearance: His black hair shows a streak of gray. He only wears the most expensive suits, and is constantly found with the latest tech gadget attached to his belt.=Roleplaying: Maximillian is competitive and harsh. He is willing to cut corners to get there before the other guy or to come in at a lower cost. When he speaks to people he feels are beneath him-which is just about everyone-he keeps working on his tablet computer, and he barely looks at them.=Personality: Ruthless and determined, Maximillian refuses to lose. He believes that the future is tied into technology.=Motivation: Maximillian works as the manager of an acquisitions department that seeks out alien ruins which hold technology that can be reverse engineered. He secretly has a deal in place to undercut his current company for huge rewards with another company when he makes a big enough find.=Background: He was raised to believe that wealth and power are the only things of real importance. When he was in business school, he decided that the best route to long term wealth and power lay in exploiting discoveries found in alien ruins, the first of which had recently been unearthed. Working his way up the ranks, he now manages the scavenger crews who search for new alien ruins that might yield the next incredible find.=Traits: (JA) Aggressive, business, white collar=489***=Kyra Snow=Mean-Spirited Dockmaster="I don't care if you have to push that bucket of bolts out of the station yourself! I don't understand how someone as incompetent as you are could own a spaceship!"=Appearance: Kyra is quite unassuming. She's rather mousy in appearance, with long blue hair and a data rig over her right eye. She wears a dockworker's utility uniform with a badge identifying her as dockmaster.=Roleplaying: She never misses a chance to verbally cut people to the bone. Kyra has little time to deviate from her schedule and always acts bothered and flustered. Expletives are sure to follow.=Personality: Kyra is just a mean person. She can't hold onto romantic partners because her personality always drives them away. Kyra claims that she needs to be strong as part of her job, but deep down she knows that her meanness is part of her nature.=Motivation: She wants smooth operations in her docking bays.=Background: Kyra has always had a vicious streak in her. She enjoys cutting people down so much that it's become second nature. She has a strong work ethic and she has worked the docking bay for several years before being promoted to dockmaster. She is brutally efficient; vessels that are a few minutes late are often stuck drifting until Kyra can reschedule them. Ships that don't leave in a timely manner are jettisoned out. Kyra continues to throw barbs at people if they've insulted her in even the most minute way.=Traits: (WC) Business, leader=490***=Private Carlos Santaro=Hallucinating Soldier="The almighty has given me a mission! I must complete my mission! I will burn if I don't!"=Appearance: Private Santaro wears typical military fatigues. The back of his shaved head is heavily scarred with a crisscross pattern of surgical cuts.=Roleplaying: He shies away from others likes a frightened rabbit until he is given a target. Then, he attacks them with uncontrollable rage.=Personality: His actions are sporadic unless he is being commanded by another. He has lost touch with reality on most levels.=Motivation: He believes that if he does what his "god" asks of him, he will not be condemned to hell.=Background: Private Santaro was badly injured during a routine training operation when a piece of equipment malfunctioned and fractured his skull. While Santaro was being treated, a high-ranking government agent ordered the military surgeon to implant a device into Santaro's skull. The implant manipulates Private Santaro's senses and causes him to feel a "divine presence" that he has been conditioned to believe is a supreme being. Gradually, his superiors manipulated Private Santaro to not only believe that the supreme being was there with him, but that if he did not do whatever was asked of him then he would suffer a fate worse than death. Whether or not the conditioning forced upon him can be undone is unknown.=Traits: (PB) Eccentric, mysterious, religious, warrior=491***=Jack "The Rat" Therrat=Cowardly Arms Merchant="Rewind. Check it out...did'ja ever see a head fall apart like that?"=Appearance: Despite the impression afforded by the military body armor he wears and the weapons he carries, the man inside the armor is pale and slightly overweight. =Roleplaying: He hides behind his armor and bodyguards, and rarely looks his clients in the eye. He will always ask for stories of combat, and will sometimes offer a discount in exchange for a good video.=Personality: Jack is simultaneously fascinated and terrified by the weapons he sells and the violence they can cause. He enjoys watching combat, real or recorded, but does not want any part of being in it.=Motivation: He's found a way to turn his fascination with weapons into profit, with the bonus of good stories and the occasional fight video.=Background: Jack keeps his background to himself, but he was drummed out of the military for cowardice. On the way out, he managed to "misplace" a shipment of weapons, and has had an extremely profitable career ever since. It helps that he is very intelligent and willing to do business with just about anyone. He does have some rather unwholesome habits-such as his fascination with combat footage or live fights-which have earned him the nickname "The Rat." Despite the title, he has learned the value of trust and repeat business, and will not turn on a client. =Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, business, eccentric, merchant, wealthy=492***=Lincoln Shane=Unluckiest Boy="I don't get out much. Bad things happen when I go outside."=Appearance: Lincoln is a thin, reedy 16-year-old with a mop of brown hair, a wispy mustache, and the pale complexion of someone who spends too much time indoors.=Roleplaying: He's quiet, walks slowly, and hesitates at odd times because he never knows what action of his will precipitate something awful.=Personality: Lincoln is convinced that the universe has it in for him. Afraid to meet new people or try new things, he's an indifferent student with no social life. He rarely gets bullied, despite being an easy target, because bullies run afoul of his unique aura.=Motivation: Lincoln just wants to be left alone. Beneath that, he wants to know the real reason why his life is so terrible.=Background: Lincoln is the unluckiest boy in the world, but his perpetual misfortune isn't a coincidence. He doesn't know it, but Lincoln is a powerful psychic nexus-a crossroad of fate, constantly projecting a wide aura of calamity over the world around him. A moment that hangs in the balance will be tipped toward disaster by the presence of Lincoln. Sometimes, his power just causes trains to come late, rain to start up at the wrong time, and people to trip on cracks in the pavement. At other times, trains jump their tracks, rain floods the town, and people fall into open manholes. Lincoln himself usually emerges unharmed, as do his parents, when they're present.=Traits: (MR) Child, magical, mysterious, primal=493***=Gideon Noeman=Ambitious Scientist="Wait just one minute… Ah yes, tweaking the Inner Join on the query makes the nanobots behave just how we want them to."=Appearance: Gideon has spiky blond hair, wears technology-enhanced wire frame glasses, and is rarely out of his white lab coat, even while sleeping. He always wears a friendly smile.=Roleplaying: He is hyperactive and hard to reign in. His mind works faster than others' minds, and he hates to slow down for them. He'll happily try to explain things in layman's terms, but phrases like "inverted conformational neutrino cascade" and "ectopic non-permissive farnesylation" creep into his conversations nonetheless.=Personality: Gideon is constantly excited about his latest project and ready to tell anyone about it, even if they can't keep up.=Motivation: He seeks to create the tools to skyrocket humanity into the next age. He believes that all of life's problems can be solved with technology.=Background: Gideon's intelligence has always been extraordinary, but to him that seems normal. People who can't understand incredibly complex ideas of advanced technology have always seemed like outsiders to him, but his intelligence doesn't make him feel superior. On the contrary, it drives him to create tools that let others advance themselves. He has made incredible devices, theorems, and advances in his short life, and the projects that he has abandoned in favor of more interesting ones are handed to other scientists who struggle to complete Gideon's genius work.=Traits: (JA) Focal, genius, scientist=494***=Jacob Pillar=Clever Police Detective="Captain, it's just too damned convenient for the only prints and DNA in that hotel capsule to belong to the suspect."=Appearance: The only thing separating Jacob from dozens of other nameless guys in cheap suits is the confident and knowing way he looks at people.=Roleplaying: Jacob asks questions, lots of questions, and is adept at compelling people to reveal more than they mean to.=Personality: He's curious, even about things that aren't in his job description.=Motivation: Some cops get satisfaction out of putting away criminals; Jacob just wants to know what actually happened.=Background: Curious by nature, Jacob stumbled into a career as a police officer when a detective came into the spaceport bar he tended. Simply by asking the right questions of the detective, he helped solve the crime. After a few repeat episodes, the detective talked him into applying for an open position. While Jacob relishes the satisfaction of solving mysteries, his less-than-spotless past keeps him from being too judgmental of suspects. He didn't exactly lead a life of crime, but he wasn't on the straight and narrow, either. His circle of contacts from those days is a useful resource for him and anyone he knows.=Traits: (KS) Charming, genius, police=495***=Sarah Dylan=Overzealous Body-Modder="Why be yourself when you can be better?"=Appearance: A big-boned woman with one wide-set green eye and one cybernetic eye that sees in infrared, Sarah's white hair is cropped close to her skull. She has numerous cybernetic modifications, from simple data jacks to limb replacements.=Roleplaying: Sarah is fairly quiet and withdrawn but becomes excited and outgoing when discussing cybernetics and comparing hardware. No matter the topic she is self-deprecating and modest. =Personality: Constantly worried what others think, Sarah is often depressed and second guesses herself. She enjoys the attention that her cybernetics bring her and goes to lengths to display her modifications to maximum effect.=Motivation: Sarah tries hard to make others like her by improving herself.=Background: As a young girl Sarah was shy and easily overlooked, leaving her socially awkward and unpopular. The older she got, the more invisible she became, until she discovered body-modding. Suddenly everyone wanted to talk to her, and she loved it. Since her first simple data jack she has repeatedly upped the ante to stay on the cutting edge of hardware and keep heads turning. Unfortunately, high-end mods cost a lot of money, so Sarah had to get multiple jobs as early as she could to support her habit, leaving her with no time for education. Stuck at a low-paying warehouse job, she lives simply so she can afford the newest tech.=Traits: (MN) Business, eccentric, laborer=496***=Elroy Vestler=Dishonest Hyperspace Mechanic="That doesn't look good. Your hyperspace manifold is shot. Normally one of those runs around 15k, but I happen to have one that fell off a cruiser that I can let go of for 9k."=Appearance: Elroy is always seen in a sealed vacuum suit. The helmet's interior lights illuminate his chubby face, covered in stubble and small drops of sweat. =Roleplaying: He never touches anyone, even with the suit on. Elroy speaks quickly and in technical terms to confuse people.=Personality: A dishonest mechanic, Elroy is always looking to take some sucker for a few more credits. He is also a germophobe who is terrified of getting sick.=Motivation: Elroy loves making money and loves it more when he does not have to do any real work for it. His money goes towards the very expensive environmental system that keeps his house germ-free.=Background: Growing up in space, Elroy was always susceptible to all kinds of illnesses. He was never very motivated, but smart enough to get hyperspace mechanic training. He learned early in his career that most people have no idea of how hyperspace drives work, and soon his laziness drove him to start cutting corners, flat-out lying about problems. Eventually Elroy fleeced enough money to afford him a small business and a house with a top-of-the-line environmental system to keep him healthy.=Traits: (PV) Business, eccentric, laborer=497***=Mother Quinella=Itinerant Preacher="Come together. Support one another. Build bonds with your neighbor. Hold fast when attacked by the waste's scavengers, who, God willing, will be thrown back like dust on the wind."=Appearance: In her middle years, she wears a black robe, white collar and carries a worn, leather-bound Bible. Her long black hair is held back in a neat braid.=Roleplaying: Mother Quinella's humility is genuine, and her devotion deep. She does not make a show of praying but instead will retire for personal meditation, which can sometimes take hours. She will lead others in public prayer, if asked, but these will be short invocations.=Personality: She never stays in one spot too long and makes acquaintances easily, but has few truly close friends. She can often be found in the company of children, laughing and playing games with them. When confronting marauders, she turns hard and determined.=Motivation: Carrying the Word from community to community is her focus, trusting to the Almighty to watch over her as she travels the wastes.=Background: Quinella was an advertising executive who sought shelter in a church when civilization fell. The church collapsed, and she was one of the few survivors; a dying priest pulled her free and asked her to "carry on." She found priestly garb and a Bible, and having lost everything, including her family, felt a new calling. She now travels the wastes, helping forge communities of good-hearted folk, disdainful of motorcycle gangs and adventurers.=Traits: (TT) Counselor, religious, saintly=498***=Doctor Hans Palau=Mild-Mannered Archaeologist="Please watch your step. These ruins are old and I wouldn't want you to twist your ankle on a broken rock."=Appearance: Hans is a thin older man with yellow-gray hair. He always wears a field suit and a wide-brimmed hat. He is never without his archaeological tools, most of which are attached to his belt.=Roleplaying: He is kind to a fault. Hans treats everyone as if they were favored relatives. He never raises his voice or uses a cross word. He'll apologize for his "salty language" when he uses a word that has long since become acceptable.=Personality: Hans is genuinely kind. His parents bred it into him and Hans wouldn't know how to treat someone poorly; he'd simply tolerate them. He has a love of archaeology, especially for mysterious ancient ruins.=Motivation: He wants to make great archaeological finds and share them with the world.=Background: Hans became interested in ancient ruins while studying at the Galactic Academy. He originally planned to be a scientist but graduated with a degree in archaeology. He took a job at the Academy and quickly became a favorite professor due to his kind-hearted style. While he enjoys teaching, Hans is also running several field studies on a half-dozen worlds. He's learned a lot of information on these digs, some of which may be quite useful to interested parties.=Traits: (WC) Academic, leader, saintly, scholar=499***=Tessa Triumph=Committed Reformer="Reverse policies now! Small steps cannot deliver the needed reforms."=Appearance: Tessa is elegantly dressed, with a shimmer of synthetic emerald glistening from her raised collars and elegant green fingernails. She stands 5'5", with an easy smile and a twinkle in her eye.=Roleplaying: She absently cracks ginger bars, popping them with a wince as the pungent bite first hits. She paces in a box pattern, two steps to each side, when she's deep in thought.=Personality: Tessa hates incremental solutions, the slow progress of knowledge. She loves the first class on a topic or day on the job, but doesn't persevere. =Motivation: Everything is getting bogged down; only a bold, direct leader can break us all out of our slow slide into collapse.=Background: Tessa studied at her brilliant father's knee, often struggling to grasp concepts that were just out of reach. She dazzled boys in her teens; fashion and speech came easily to her. She's been married twice; her first husband tried to keep her isolated, but it didn't suit her-she organized meetings and movements, chaired several boards, and shouted down corrupt police. After two contracts, they split. She found she wasn't a woman for being alone and soon partnered with a local industrial titan; together they're working to improve the local area. He's going slow...while she's researching a bold restructuring.=Traits: (SM) Dilettante, political, wealthy=500***=Eliani Bowyn=Genetically Engineered Servant="I must advise caution, for the probabilities dictate a high likelihood of deception on their part. I have seen it before."=Appearance: She has gray eyes on a backdrop of pale, glistening skin with a soft amber hue. She is completely hairless and stands unmoving in deep golden robes trimmed in sapphire. A magnificent headdress-a lattice of jewels-frames her head.=Roleplaying: Eliani is devoid of emotion and speaks of facts and protocol. She has a steely gaze that is unrelenting but speaks softly, her voice barely audible. When not actively participating she seamlessly melds into her surroundings as an observer.=Personality: Born into devoted service, Elani is fully committed to the royal lineage she has been bonded to. Purged of emotions, she provides unfettered counsel that is cold and objective. She is not a machine, however, and readily understands the human condition and the weight of her advice.=Motivation: She will dispassionately shepherd her lineage through adversity. That is her sole goal and all others have been suppressed in favor of it.=Background: Bred as loyal advisors, the precursors to Elani and others like her were forged to prevent war. Freed from emotion and gifted with exceptionally long life-Eliani has lived to counsel three generations of her family-Eliani has the benefit of selective breeding, education, and experience to make her the ultimate living companion and source of counsel. For all this, she is still human and fallible.=Traits: (DM) Ancient, counselor, royalty=501***=Ser Mallis Voltaire=Cunning Planetary Ruler="My dear senators, now is not the time for quarrelling. Now is the time for unity."=Appearance: Fat with the spoils of leadership, Ser Mallis barely fits into his ceremonial presidential robes. His bald head retains hair only around the back and sides.=Roleplaying: Ser Mallis seems to have a sneer hidden somewhere on his face, even when he is schmoozing and playing nice with diplomats and senators. One can tell that he is a power player. The first time he looks at a new person, he eyes them up and down to see if he can use them in one of his schemes.=Personality: Sly and calculating, President Voltaire sees everyone as a game piece that he can move.=Motivation: He works to maintain his position as the colony's planetary ruler. He has become accustomed to the game and to the luxurious lifestyle that it brings.=Background: Ser Mallis slowly rose to power through the political ranks. Starting as a clerk at the local license office, he learned to manipulate the system in just the right way-the way that did favors for the right people and prevented him from getting caught. Ser Mallis learned that everyone has a use and that leveraging those people keeps him in power, allowing him to reap the rewards of rulership. President Voltaire has been attempting to gain support for a repeal of term limits by fueling the fire of a territorial war.=Traits: (JA) Business, political, wealthy=502***=Larra Lyak=Discreet Pilot="You're right, the Century Hawk isn't fast-but she's quiet. You look like someone who appreciates a quiet ship."=Appearance: Built like a brick house, Larra is heavily muscled from her years as a mechanic. She wears a bulky blaster pistol in a shoulder holster.=Roleplaying: Larra is always calm, even in the heat of combat. She's seen it all, and she's not afraid of anything.=Personality: Larra has worked every day since she turned 14, first as a mechanic and then as a pilot for hire. She saved up for years to buy the Century Hawk outright, and the ship is her baby. Fairness was ingrained in her from an early age, as was distrust of the government.=Motivation: Above all else, Larra values freedom and fairness. She'll give anyone a chance to earn her respect, but once lost, that respect will never be regained.=Background: A mechanic who discovered she had a knack for flying, Larra doesn't care much for the government or its regulations. She flies her ship, the tramp freighter "Century Hawk," wherever her mood takes her. She's earned a reputation for being discreet and charging a fair price for hauling people and cargo with no questions asked. The Hawk looks unremarkable, but Larra keeps it clean and in superb mechanical condition. Its interior sports numerous hidey-holes and smuggling compartments.=Traits: (MR) Adventurer, business, pilot=503***=Byron Phoenix=Aggressive Salesman="Trust me, this overthruster is hardly used and completely refurbished. You have my ironclad guarantee. Maybe you don't need it now, but you'll thank me later for giving it to you at such a steal."=Appearance: Wearing so much make-up that he looks like a plastic doll, Byron is always smiling and animated. He wears a stylish suit in garish colors. =Roleplaying: For Byron, every item he sells is an "impulse item" worthy of a hard sell. Regardless of why someone talks to him, Byron tries to push a product with every other breath. The hard sell turns to begging as the potential customer walks away.=Personality: He honestly believes that he is a master salesman and that his merchandise is worth every credit. He spends most of his money on advertisements that air throughout the station where he is currently peddling his products. =Motivation: He's out to make a quick buck.=Background: Byron is a throwback to the early days of frontier space. He's a traveling salesman hawking spare parts for small spacecraft. As space became more civilized, Byron has found himself getting squeezed out, not the least because he can't be bothered to keep up with the paperwork to maintain a legitimate business. He's now reduced to salvaging old wrecks and selling the parts to other rim runners that are still using old spacecraft. =Traits: (WC) Aggressive, business, merchant=504***=Pascal Love=Self-Aware Slave="Mon amour, why do you deny yourself the simplest of pleasures. Come, let me show you the way."=Appearance: A shockingly handsome man with tanned, golden skin and deep, brilliant green eyes. His long brown hair is pulled back into a ponytail. His pants are a dark green color; his shirt a light tan button-down. He wears a dark brown synthetic leather jacket and languidly draws on a cigarette.=Roleplaying: He has a heavy French accent that betrays his heritage, and his words are like liquid sex rolling off his tongue. Pascal is disarmingly charming to both sexes.=Personality: Pascal greatly enjoys what he does and doesn't shy away from questions. He is a little evasive about his background, as he does not have one beyond a few years ago that will withstand scrutiny.=Motivation: He will do what he was born to do, but on his own terms. Unwilling to live as an engineered slave, he wants to help those in a similar crossroads in life.=Background: In reality Pascal is as French as his jacket is leather; he was "born" as an engineered pleasure slave. He's genetically disposed to pleasing others and received extensive training in doing so. Along the way Pascal began to develop a unique personality derived from his falsified background, eventually escaping the system. He plies his trade as a personal escort but also keeps an eye out for others seeking escape.=Traits: (DM) Beautiful, charming, dilettante=505***=Cassius Stillwell=Jaded Traveler="The rare once-a-century blooming Orchid of Philgon 4? Yeah, I've seen it...twice."=Appearance: A tall, lean man with dirty blond hair, Cassius has a classic Roman nose and piercing blue eyes. Used to harsh travel and constant danger, he wears light environmental armor and carries a sidearm with him whenever there might be trouble.=Roleplaying: Cassius feels the need to always one-up any stories or experiences shared by those around him, and to deride anything anyone praises. If asked about his own travels, he has hundreds of stories to tell, each more exaggerated than the last.=Personality: Though hardworking, the universe holds no wonder for Cassius. He is jaded and survives from day to day rather than living.=Motivation: Cassius desperately seeks some new place or event that he has never experienced before.=Background: With a single father who raised him on the road as part of a traveling rock band, Cassius inherited his father's wanderlust and by 16 was working jobs on various ships going from planet to planet. Currently in his late forties, he has seen and done everything worth seeing or doing in the known universe, and feels there is nothing new or exciting to see or try. He travels aimlessly, doing odd jobs and performing manual labor to cover the costs of passage.=Traits: (MN) Adventurer, eccentric, laborer=506***=Lys Maleen=Disfigured Psychic="You can ask about the mask. It's okay, everyone does. I wear it so you won't be upset when you see me."=Appearance: Disfigured by a chemical burn, Lys wears a smiling mask to hide her hideous face. She dresses plainly, if somewhat anachronistically, so as to avoid attention.=Roleplaying: Lys hides, or tries to escape notice, until she's needed. She uses her telepathy unconsciously, and she's ashamed of her appearance.=Personality: Humble and kind, Lys' psychic abilities made her an outsider before her accident; she's even more of an outsider now, and she's always conscious of that. She's painfully shy unless she's helping someone or using her gift; then she opens up, becoming awkwardly blunt, instead.=Motivation: Lys wants to use her powers to help people, but she's afraid of being persecuted.=Background: When Lys' psychic powers-telepathy and telekinesis-manifested at the age of 13, her parents made her keep her abilities a secret. They took her out of school, hid her from view, and taught her that the world would not accept a freak. But Lys wanted to become a doctor, to help people, and to share her gift. Hiding tore her up inside, and she tried to kill herself by drinking bleach at age 17, but her unconscious telekinesis bumped the bottle at the last moment, resulting in horrible chemical burns. Now in medical school, she still keeps her powers a secret.=Traits: (MR) Academic, hideous, magical, medic, saintly=507***=Dr. Steven Ward=Drunken Medical Officer="If you don't like my treatment, get bent. <hiccup>"=Appearance: Dr. Ward is unkempt. His black doctor's smock is the only thing hiding the dirt and blood stains that he doesn't care to clean off. In his pocket, one can spot the silvery gleam of a flask.=Roleplaying: Dr. Ward doesn't really care about much, and his bedside manner is deplorable. He stumbles about, seeing to the crew's medical needs, but seems in a daze most of the time.=Personality: Despondent and uncaring, Dr. Ward doesn't really care what people think about him and will say whatever comes to mind.=Motivation: When he is sober, Dr. Ward realizes that he could be kicked out of his position quite easily. He tries to smooth-talk signs of obvious negligence and make up for things he said while drunk. When he is drunk, however, he says whatever is on his mind.=Background: Dr. Ward has seen a lot of bad stuff go down in his time. His first medical role was as a combat medic, and the horror of those images has never left him. As the war stretched on, Dr. Ward became numb to it and started using alcohol as an escape. His problems became apparent enough that Command sent him to a far off base, where he wouldn't embarrass them. He blunderingly sees to the needs of the crew as best he can, but creates more problems than he cures.=Traits: (JA) Abhorrent, medic, military =508***=Phondra Cholem=Cybernetics Pioneer="Am I a person? Of course, I am. Am I human? I'm not so sure of that anymore..."=Appearance: Tired, deep-set eyes peer out from behind thick bifocals. He's in his late middle years, with graying temples, unruly hair, and a persistent five o'clock shadow. Phondra usually wears a lab coat over a shirt and slacks and a pair of comfortable, worn shoes.=Roleplaying: He has a habit of periodically checking his vital signs on his handheld computer, frowning, tapping at the display as if the result is not to his liking, and then pocketing the device before continuing a conversation.=Personality: Phondra suspects his consciousness no longer occupies his original body, but he's not sure. When he speaks with people, he is tentative, as if checking himself to be sure he is actually the one speaking.=Motivation: His passion is the advancement of self-aware robots, and he will pursue it regardless of the restrictions on this avenue of research. He hopes the field will shed light on his current state.=Background: Years ago, he used himself as a test subject to transfer consciousness into a cybernetic being. In those days he was a brilliant, often arrogant researcher who flouted rules governing such experiments, but now he has no memory beyond the decision to embark on the procedure. In the hospital, Phondra awoke disoriented, not even recognizing himself in the mirror. He has been reeducated and remains a brilliant mind in his field.=Traits: (TT) Genius, scientist=509***=Sabine Belan=Shrewd Producer="You're already going out that way. Swing a planet over and record a 36-hour orbit. Then you give the file to me, the AIs package it up, and we distribute it across all the major info-nets. Gets you an extra 5k."=Appearance: She is a middle-aged woman with an athletic body. Her curly blond hair hangs above her shoulders. Her left eye is replaced with a cyber-eye. =Roleplaying: Sabine talks with her left hand, often drawing shapes. She will sometimes stop and review images in her cyber-eye during conversation. =Personality: Used to getting what she wants, Sabine has a knack for brokering deals almost always to her advantage. She does this without being aggressive or distasteful. =Motivation: She is at the top of her industry and knows how volatile it is. She will do anything to remain where she is.=Background: Sabine has always been in entertainment, using her family's recording equipment as a child to star in her first independently made movie when she was 13. Today she is one of the leading producers, constantly looking for new feeds of uncharted worlds, alien ruins, and new forms of life. Her favorite technique is to make deals with passing ship captains to get her feeds while they are out on a job. She then pays the captain a small amount and brokers the feed for many times more than that.=Traits: (PV) Entertainment, famous, merchant=510***=Xamical Handtaker=Studious Assassin="I'm careful with my clients, as careful as I am with my targets. Neither one comes back to bite me."=Appearance: Xamical is tall and wiry, with large hands and pale skin. He camouflages his age and personal traits as a habit, often wearing colored contacts and dyed hair.=Roleplaying: He smiles easily and absently, stroking his chin while he calculates his opponent's responses. His sentences are direct and rarely ambiguous; he'll often skip ahead and answer the question someone is working their way towards.=Personality: Xamical is implacable as a foe-though people rarely live long enough to know it. Poison, tailored nanites, ground glass-he believes in success, not fairness. When he does fight, it's with deadly precision: nerve strikes with sonic sai, not blasters.=Motivation: He wants to prove that he's the best; each death is a victory, the final result of extensive study and elegant simplicity. He'll destroy a city to take his target if it proves easier-unless his contract specifically prohibits it.=Background: Xamical has walked the shadows since childhood. His first contract was at sixteen; he met with one of the mayor's assistants and transferred a deadly virus through a handshake. Seventeen people died-including the mayor. Xamical's young wife is a skilled and loyal partner; her chemistry skills have added a number of two-part compounds to his repertoire. Seventeen contracts later, he's gained a reputation as expensive-but worth it.=Traits: (SM) Abhorrent, criminal, warrior=511***=Tersa Arglaydus=Unyielding Lane Controller="Nobody docks unless I say so, sweetie, so you might as well just park it in impulse and wait your turn."=Appearance: Tersa is in her late fortiess with short, curly hair. She dresses in a worn station uniform and wears a bulky comm-set and eyepiece. She has a frown that emphasizes her unbending nature.=Roleplaying: Lane Controller Arglaydus is a no-nonsense kind of woman. She won't let anyone get out of their assigned docking order for anything. Sweet talking, threats, diplomatic rank-nothing works. Tersa will not deviate from regulations for anyone, even her supervisors.=Personality: She is not an endearing sort and doesn't have a friendly side. The tiredness and annoyance that comes with her job is easy to pick out of her voice; all sympathy was ground out of her long ago.=Motivation: Tersa just wants to make it to retirement and get her pension. She follows written regulations to the letter, ensuring she can't be fired.=Background: She has been all over the galaxy and seen it all. She spent time bumming around planets, working on ships, and raising three kids. When she finally had to settle down because of the unexpected pregnancy of her first child, stability was her only concern. She realized that the stringent bureaucracy of corporate stations worked in her favor. Using the regulations of the station, which she has a knack for exploiting in her favor, she has never been defeated.=Traits: (JA) Business, focal, laborer=512***=Vanessa Wright, Chief of Detectives=Unethical Cop="Let's say that I did arrest every single black market dealer, alien smuggler, and space pirate wannabe in this sector. What then? You think suddenly everything would be rainbows and unicorns around here? No. They would all be replaced by the next two-bit criminals looking to make a move. Better to deal with a devil that you know than one that you don't."=Appearance: Tall and muscular, she keeps her long hair pinned up under her fedora. Her overcoat is made of tattered and worn leather.=Roleplaying: She looks at people with disgust, and interrupts others without caring. She is not above flashing her badge or gun to get her way.=Personality: She trusts nobody, not even other members of the police force.=Motivation: At first, Detective Wright was dedicated to serving justice and protecting the public, but after so many years of dealing with the worst criminals in the galaxy, she now just maintains the status quo.=Background: Born and raised on the space station where she now serves, Vanessa Wright became a cop out of idealism. At first, Vanessa was as straight as an arrow, but she soon learned that the only way to make a difference was to bend the rules a bit. By the time she had been made Chief of Detectives, she had learned that you can snap a rule in half if you know how to cover up the evidence.=Traits: (PB) Aggressive, leader, police=513***=Pilar Andreyevich=Ambitious Politician="As my late husband said before his last mission, ‘We do these things out of love, love of our home, love of our families.'" =Appearance: As impressive in person as on vid, Councilor Andreyevich's beauty and intense gaze dominate the room.=Roleplaying: Publicly, she speaks in vague generalities that anyone can agree with. Privately, she can be stern and dictatorial.=Personality: She's powerful, but knows that her current power comes from her public persona, and will not risk that.=Motivation: She is threatened by others with political power, and seeks to take theirs.=Background: Growing up during a planetary power struggle, Pilar learned early to manipulate others. A smuggler's mistress, she handled much of his business. When the smuggling ring was dissolved by the Federation, she was "rescued" by an ambitious young military commander. The two of them became partners, taking over a few smuggling routes that the Federation claimed to have shut down. Her husband's unexpected death at the hands of a group of rebels galvanized the Federation and propelled her into the spotlight. She played the strong but forgiving widow, and parlayed her fame into a Councilor seat. She balances her public persona of a kind and forgiving politician with her private persona of an interplanetary smuggler, and her ultimate goal of avenging her husband's death.=Traits: (KS) Beautiful, charming, famous, focal, leader, political, wealthy=514***=Lira Nodall=Decorated Pilot="Take us two degrees to starboard and make for that debris field. Bring the cannons online; we'll give any hiding dogs a bite of their own medicine."=Appearance: A patch over her left eye immediately draws attention. Her broad shoulders and regal bearing offset her slight stature. Her blond hair is buzzed short and severe, her combat dress uniform unbuttoned in a casual style. Field decorations on her chest jut out, accentuating her feminine form.=Roleplaying: Lira turns to address those around her with her one good eye. She's quiet unless put in charge, then barks out orders readily. She cools off considerably to anyone who views her disability as a weakness.=Personality: She is prone to seeing the worst in every situation. In many ways this prepares her to deal with surprises but dampens morale considerably. She has a "told you so" mentality.=Motivation: She will serve with distinction and do the best job possible. Discipline and preparedness overcome most obstacles.=Background: Lira's promising military career was cut short during the Saiph Offensive, when a bridge hit took out the commanding officer and most of the crew. A duty pilot, Lira took over and turned the tide to victory. Her injury was so severe that she was discharged after her body rejected implants. Now a mercenary, her discharge drives her to even more stubborn levels of performance but also makes her decidedly dreary in her outlook. She drinks heavily to forget.=Traits: (DM) Military, pilot, warrior=515***=Dr. Samuel Chade=Daring Philanthropist="I've made my mark in the corporate ‘jungle.' Easy stuff. Those pampered crybabies have no idea what a real challenge is. Get ready to duck. That carnivorous mutant condor is making another dive at us. We really pissed it off!"=Appearance: Dr. Chade is a middle-aged man with a shaved head and a thick beard. He wears heavy hiking boots and clothing suitable for outdoor explorations.=Roleplaying: He strokes his beard when pressed for a decision, and will drum his fingers on a nearby surface when upset, instead of expressing his anger.=Personality: Dr. Chade is a man of much action and few words. He would rather be living out of a tent in an alien wilderness than surrounded by luxuries.=Motivation: He seeks challenges for himself, but also wants to help the less fortunate with his wealth and expertise.=Background: A brilliant medical student, he interned as a field medic with a small fleet of star cruisers. He visited distant planets and tested himself both physically and mentally. He then returned and started a thriving medical practice, eventually building not one, but several hospitals and medical centers. He was bored, though, and retired early so that he could go back to exploring the wilderness on recently discovered planets. He also uses his wealth and medical knowledge to help the colonists on the planets that he visits, because he considers such people to be the finest examples of humanity.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, medic, wealthy=516***=Goldar Goldenvoice (Evard Grubb)=Minstrel Impersonator="I'll take the gold one. I don't care what it costs-it's gold, so it's the best."=Appearance: Everything Goldar owns and wears is gold, golden, gold-plated, or gold-scented. He wears a smiling golden mask at all times.=Roleplaying: Goldar never speaks, except around strangers. He spends money like every day is his last.=Personality: Goldar does everything big (and golden), demands the best, and acts as crazy as he needs to in order to draw attention. Evard, the man impersonating the real Goldar, is naturally shy and surly.=Motivation: He wants to continue living his charmed, golden life forever-and he's too foolish to see that this just isn't going to happen.=Background: Goldar Goldenvoice is an impostor. His real name is Evard Grubb, a former ditch-digger who the real Goldenvoice hired to polish the interior of one of his many golden starships. Because Goldar, the most famous singer in the galaxy, always wears a mask on stage (and, to preserve his voice, rarely speaks off stage), Evard saw his chance and took it: He drugged Goldar, locked him in his quarters, and took over his life. Thus far, he's pulled it off, being careful not to speak around anyone who knew the real Goldar well-but this is a foolish gambit, as he's going to be forced to perform before too long. The moment he opens his mouth, everyone will hear the voice of Evard the ditch-digger.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, eccentric, entertainment, humorous=517***=Kesia Fesh=Obsequious Security Chief="RULES are important. Safety first. Can't you see that?"=Appearance: She is meticulous in her appearance, a stickler for keeping to the uniform code. Every stitch of her security uniform is in place and her boots are polished to a shine.=Roleplaying: Kesia likes to buff her badge with the sleeve of her shirt before approaching someone to cite a minor infraction.=Personality: She is a small-minded person and is blunt in conversation, relying on proverbs, catch-phrases, and aphorisms when pressed to actually think for herself.=Motivation: She makes sure the letter of the law is followed without question.=Background: Kesia began her career as a safety inspector and recognized a job opportunity on an interstellar outpost as a chance to finally make a living wage. Because of her experience, she was made security chief. As a safety inspector, she was adequate. Now, as a law enforcement officer forced to judge the actions of actual human beings, she falls far short. She is blind to the larger problems of corruption and crime run by the outpost's worker factions. The faction leaders know she is relatively harmless and encourage her dogmatic approach to following safety rules. They know that if they get rid of her, they'll have to deal with a genuine police enforcer.=Traits: (TT) Police, zealot=518***=Dominic Newland=Misunderstood Prophet="God did not create man in his image. We created him in ours."=Appearance: Dominic's chiseled features and dark skin are accentuated by cold black eyes and bushy eyebrows. His black hair is slicked back and a chipped tooth is hidden behind a sneer. His collared shirt and plain slacks help him blend into the crowd easily.=Roleplaying: Wearing a constant sneer, Dominic talks down to everyone, making broad generalizations and doing little to mask his contempt. He tends to spit out his words in small, piercing bits.=Personality: He's overcome with ego and confidence in his secret order's agenda and purpose in life, which he views as divine. His discovery of the techno-theocracy is a matter of personal pride for Dominic and he doesn't suffer skeptics well.=Motivation: He seeks the furthering of his faith and continuing the evolution of the emerging Techno-God.=Background: Dominic's sect consists of cultists who have immersed themselves so much in technology and its purity of purpose that when the first vestiges of AI were discovered they viewed this event as a holy "birth." Dominic is lauded as the foremost authority on the techno-theocracy movement that he seeks to create: a God of technology that will show the true divine path, unfettered by human faults. Most are terrified of the idea, which Dominic is careful to present as a way of freedom from decision-making. He is unsure as how to overcome the resistance he has encountered.=Traits: (DM) Occult, religious=519***=Suki Menendez=Intimidating Security Officer="I shall only ask you once. Put down your weapon and surrender. Otherwise, I'll make you put down your weapon and surrender."=Appearance: Thin and a little shorter than average, Suki makes up for it with her confidence and attitude. She keeps her raven hair in two long braids. While thin, Suki's body is very well-muscled and she wears a tattoo on one shoulder indicating that she's won the Triple Sector Martial Arts Championship three times. She generally wears her security chief uniform.=Roleplaying: She is firm and direct while acting as chief, but is surprisingly friendly and funny when off-duty. She always issues one warning before using her martial skills to take down a threat.=Personality: Suki is an extrovert, sometimes overly so, but she shuts it off when performing her duty. She never drinks alcohol but has a passion for vintage and regional soft drinks.=Motivation: She is a collector. She enjoys researching lost colony ships in the hopes of finding forgotten soft drink specimens.=Background: Suki grew up on a space freighter convoy. Due to the lack of full gravity she had to give her muscles constant exercise. Even when gravity was no longer a problem, Suki continued her heavy exercise regimen and became a champion martial artist. She enrolled in the Space Academy and graduated as a security officer. Due to her isolation as a child, Suki works hard to be friendly.=Traits: (WC) Military, warrior=520***=Tilda Merrigan=Customs Official="This is one of the hardest, messiest, most thankless, and important jobs around here, kiddo, and I love it!"=Appearance: A short, stout woman with hazel eyes and thick auburn hair, Tilda has several cybernetic implants in her hands, ears, and legs, which grant her near-superhuman senses and speed.=Roleplaying: Tilda is an easygoing woman who loves to laugh. She treats everyone she meets as a friend and greets them with a smile.=Personality: Tilda is extremely hard-working and focused. As the main customs official in a very large spaceport, she is ultimately responsible for making sure nothing illegal or harmful passes through the station. She is incredibly focused while on the job, but always works with a smile.=Motivation: Tilda loves experiencing the chaos of the spaceport and the unlimited variety of items she sees passing through her checkpoint, but is more worried that something harmful or illegal will slip past her.=Background: Tilda grew up on the station; her parents were both employees there. She was always fascinated by the customs area, with all its rare and exotic items out to see. Once, when she was a young woman, one of the customs officials found a container of quantum concentrate being smuggled through the station-which, if released into a planet's water supply, could poison nearly an entire world. Awed by magnitude of the find, Tilda knew she would never be happy working anywhere else.=Traits: (MN) Business, leader, white collar=521***=Janice Rowan=Cantankerous Blogger="Humph. No politician can be trusted. See my latest work for an example of that."=Appearance: A heavyset woman with hazel eyes and sagging breasts, her brown hair shows strands of silver. Her fingers are unusually long and her drab clothing is nondescript and out of style.=Roleplaying: She fiddles with an old datapad and mutters to herself, pausing to make a voice entry. Janice evaluates the area about her for inspiration, including the people she interacts with. She rarely engages others in conversation, simply grunting approval or disapproval.=Personality: She's never happy with the status quo and seeks to uproot the establishment in the name of "the common man." Janice spins just about any comment or accomplishment in the worst possible way to prove her point. She sees the system as broken but rather than try to fix   it, she uses political corruption as a platform to peddle her art.=Motivation: She hopes to rally people with her inflammatory writings. She wants to stand up for the little people and effect change but is blind to the small scope of her influence.=Background: Janice has made a career of being a lightning rod for controversy. Her political writings strike a chord with a vocal few, elevating her to the status of a misanthrope with an agenda. She's highly critical of all politicians and berates the system, garnering a following of equally unhappy citizens. Her tirades are well-written but shortsighted.=Traits: (DM) Artist, notorious, political=522***=Raymond Lowe=Enlightened Hermit="I have no atomic constructor. If I want something I make it myself from scratch. That means I work the raw materials myself into the product that I desire to have. Yes, sometimes my results are flawed, but I have discovered that sometimes a flaw can be beautiful."=Appearance: His head is clean-shaven and he wears clothes that he has sewn himself. He has a personal holographic news display unit that is unusually large (about the size of a business card). This is because he built it himself from store-bought parts.=Roleplaying: Raymond runs his hands over manufactured objects in order to assess how they were built.=Personality: He's calm and patient. He doesn't seem to mind that his homemade equipment sometimes doesn't give him instant results.=Motivation: He wishes to reconnect with the tools of everyday life-to appreciate the complexity of their mechanics and the ingenuity of their design-instead of just passively expecting continually better performance. He discovered that if he makes something himself, it's more enjoyable to use and he's less likely to take it for granted.=Background: Raymond was a world class engineer, but he grew tired of turning out designs while never actually building anything. He left his profession and bought a rural cabin. In order to learn the skills needed to make his own things, he has foregone the conveniences of modern home manufacturing technology. The locals are convinced he's insane, and stay away from him.=Traits: (PB) Crafter, genius, notorious, outdoorsman=523***=Nathaniel "Lucky 13" Bancroft-Jameson XIII=Wealthy Rake="You imbeciles are totally crashing my party time. Jack, please take them out, and interpret that however you wish."=Appearance: He'd probably be handsome, if he wasn't sloppily dressed in the latest street samurai fashions, complete with pop band tattoos.=Roleplaying: Nathaniel is every rich kid bad guy from every 1980s movie rolled into one.=Personality: He's selfish and cowardly, and hides behind his bodyguards and attitude.=Motivation: As Nathaniel says, "It's always time to party when Lucky 13's here, baaay-bee!"=Background: Born rich and ignored, he spends his time pretending to be a street samurai or other thug. He doesn't have real tactical implants (they hurt), just the fake ones. It's not as if he really needs weapons; his ever-present squad of bodyguards takes care of any problems that may arise. He does have the best reflex wiring money can buy, and can get his hands on just about anything, given enough time and access to his family's fortune. =Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, dilettante, royalty, wealthy=524***=Felecia Belvortai=Sagacious Security Officer="Don't bother looking in the main hold. This class of ship has an auxiliary power relay that more adventurous smugglers will remove and use to store their goods. Just…like…this."=Appearance: Felecia is a short, pear-shaped woman. Her light brown hair is worn in a short military cut. Her uniform is well tailored.=Roleplaying: She thinly smiles most times. Felecia is an exceptional listener and always has a perceptive follow-up question.=Personality: A woman of incredible insight and judgment, Felecia has a strong devotion to the law. Despite her passion for the law, she has a positive demeanor and truly enjoys her work. =Motivation: She is a workaholic, devoting her life to the law. She has forsaken any personal attachments for her defense of the law.=Background: Before the war, Felecia was married and trying for her first child. When the Order attacked her station with smuggled gravity bombs, her husband was killed and she was wounded; she lost her ability to have children. When she recovered, Felecia dedicated her life to the pursuit of the Order, and in turn all smugglers. After the war, Felecia received several promotions and moved up the ladder until she took command of the security of the station. Today Felecia runs her station well, and very little occurs without her knowing about it. =Traits: (PV) Leader, police, zealot=525***=Nila Os'Tai=Wandering Fighter="I have for some time wanted to experience your culture. I know you don't typically fight women, and I appreciate the exception you are making for me."=Appearance: Nila's genetics hail from Indian ancestry mixed with life in high gravity. She is below average height, with thick musculature and feminine looks. She wears her hair in a ponytail and has several decorative tattoos.=Roleplaying: Polite and calm, Nila cannot be intimidated. She frowns on rudeness and will use force to show her displeasure. =Personality: She is an iconic warrior. She is tough in body and spirit. Her training has given her a calm personality and great self-control. =Motivation: Nila desires to experience the cultures of the galaxy through their martial skills, particularly through hand-to-hand combat. =Background: A career soldier, Nila mustered out of the military with a respectable war chest. For several years, she was the bodyguard to a wealthy starship captain. When the captain retired, he gave her a sizable severance and left Nila to determine her own fate. Always a fan of the martial arts, Nila studied several forms and eventually mastered them all. After she decided that dojo learning could not provide her any new insight, she began to travel the galaxy to engage people in hand-to-hand combat. She has fought both highly trained and back alley fighters. She is always looking for a form or technique that she has not experienced.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, warrior, wealthy=526***=Xia Ravenskin=Compromised Secretary="Coffee, two sugars, no cream. And for you, Mister Davis?"=Appearance: Xia is an attractive young woman with Asian features; long dark hair swept into a loose braid that runs down her back. A silvery secretary's data-bridge is mounted to her right temple.=Roleplaying: When it's to her advantage, Xia emphasizes her Asian heritage and listens quietly, adopting a subservient posture. She pauses, calculating the proper responses, when responding in a corporate environment.=Personality: Xia is quiet, trustworthy, and living a lie. She is charming and friendly-no one who needs to be investigated more closely.=Motivation: She wants to find her mother's killer; she's here to gather the information to do it.=Background: Xia grew up in the shadows of the corporate towers; a non-person, daughter of disposable tools. Her parents eked out a good life for years, playing one corporation against another, staying invaluable. Until one day her mom didn't return, and her dad dashed home and led her through the sewers just minutes ahead of the cleanup squad. She came up with a plan, acquired secretary implants, extensive training, and expensive false documents, all to infiltrate the corporation. She's seeking pass codes and files-either to get her into black-ops records, or to get a hacker into the system to identify her mother's killer.=Traits: (SM) Charming, criminal, impoverished, white collar=527***=Captain Zachary Jeffers=Unlucky Captain="I knew I should have stayed in bed today. All right, who's threatening war this time?"=Appearance: Jeffers' uniform is left unzipped to the stomach, exposing whatever logo happens to be on the old T-shirt he wears. He keeps his black dreadlocks neat and short, like his beard.=Roleplaying: His brow is constantly furrowed as he looks over reports and figures out the crew's next move. When he gives orders, he places his hands on his hips in a dramatic pose.=Personality: Captain Jeffers tries to stay optimistic, but he rarely succeeds. Jeffers is a bit scared of the world, but when trouble comes he doesn't cower-he faces it head on. He believes that peace and tranquility might lie just beyond the end of the next problem.=Motivation: Zachary just wants an easy life. He never signs his crew up for anything that could prove dangerous, but luck is not on his side and he often finds himself facing odd troubles.=Background: No matter how simple Jeffers tries to make his life, or how by-the-book he plays it, he encounters a new adventure on every trip. On his first mission, a simple supply run, Jeffers found himself leading a colony's rebellion against their warlord ruler. His next mission included a narrow escape from a black hole and the discovery of an alien ziggurat. Jeffers just wants to do easy runs, but fate has other ideas in mind. =Traits: (JA) Adventurer, leader=528***=Madglo, Duke of the Air=Mysterious Pterosaur Rider="To win the hand of the princess, I will prove my bravery and loyalty to her by defeating these strangers."=Appearance: Like all members of the palace air guard, Madglo wears a black flight suit with a black veil. He is tall, dark, and handsome, but bears a deep scar down his left cheek.=Roleplaying: He often clutches at the leash latch to his pet pterosaur's reins.=Personality: Like many fliers, he is sometimes daring and even reckless. At other times he acts with discipline and intelligence.=Motivation: Madglo desires to win the hand of the princess, a member of the human ruling elite on this alien world, and thereby gain access to the immortality elixirs that are given only to the emperor's family.=Background: He keeps hidden that fact he is a stranger whose rocket ship fell through the rift. He took in the lay of the alien landscape, populated with mostly barbaric humans, and determined that he liked it. Early on, Madglo hijacked a patrol skiff and impersonated the palace air guardsman he killed. Since then, he has ascended through the ranks quickly. Mostly, he pilots skiffs and jet fighters in battle, which earned him his title and brought him to the attention of the princess. To impress the princess, who loves all things primitive, he learned to tame, train, and fly pterosaurs. Winning over the princess won't be easy, but he's willing to endure much to achieve his goal.=Traits: (TT) Military, mysterious, warrior=529***=Devon Kalfos=Uncanny Explorer="It's not about fate or destiny; it's about orbits-planets orbiting stars, electrons orbiting nuclei. I have seen it! I have seen reality converged into one beautiful equation."=Appearance: Devon is a tall man with a thin build that lacks any tone. He has a blond flat-top. His eyes are open a bit too wide. He wears a mismatch of clothes that obey no fashion rules.=Roleplaying: He drifts off in conversation and launches into tangents. His fingers move when he is thinking, as if on a keyboard. =Personality: Something is not right about Devon, and it is clear to everyone who meets him. He is even-tempered and kind, but it is obvious that Devon does not see the world like everyone else. =Motivation: Devon is looking for something, and not even Devon knows what it is. At times he has a strong desire to get into his ship and plot a random course.=Background: A deep space scout, Devon went out on a survey and returned home to find that he had changed, but with no recollection of what happened to him. The doctors were unable to detect any physical problems. Despite his strange behavior, Devon was able to return to his job. Eventually Devon was able to pay off his ship, and now he takes odd jobs to keep the ship fueled so that he can travel when the impulse strikes.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, mysterious, stealthy=530***=Avery Zane=Well-Informed Barkeep="That's your plan? You'd better start thinking before your head implodes!"=Appearance: This bartender's steady gaze, lean physique, and salt-and-pepper buzz cut make her look more like a soldier.=Roleplaying: Until she trusts someone, she's distant. If she trusts them, she's very direct with her questions and advice, bordering on rude.=Personality: She has no patience for idiots or for overly-complicated schemes. =Motivation: Her life savings are in her bar, and she tracks the flow of information and activity in the area in order to protect it.=Background: After careers as a military officer and as an adventurer were both violently cut short by a failure to properly plan, Avery invested what was left of her estate in a bar on the cheap side of town. By keeping an ear to the ground and an occasional hand on the tiller, she managed to leverage her way into owning the entire building. She's very interested in any activities that will affect her and her business, and will do what she can to direct them. Over the years, she has developed a circle of contacts and a collection of weapons and other gear that adventurers will find useful. Avery is an excellent sounding board for the PCs' plans, and can be a great resource for them. Be careful that she does not become a GMPC, directing the party's actions.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, business, counselor, wealthy=531***=Corrina Taluk-Burke=Kinky Librarian="Shhhhh! Not one more word or I'll gag you!"=Appearance: Corrina is an exceedingly beautiful petite young woman with bright pink ponytails that bob as she moves. She wears a tight white blouse and short plaid skirt with black pumps. She has a wide belt and a pair of old-style eyeglasses dangles from a chain around her neck, resting between her breasts. She cradles several books and datapads in her arms.=Roleplaying: Corrina is constantly making accidental double entendres and inappropriate comments, all to her dismay. She's bubbly and helpful, bending over to help pick up books or standing on high ladders to put them away.=Personality: She has a keen interest in history, in particular the old, antiquated ways of storing information in books. She's oblivious to how out of place she looks, having learned much of what she knows about librarians of yore-their style, social function, and idioms-through "ancient texts." Corrina genuinely enjoys helping people and takes pride in her organizational skills.=Motivation: She just wants to help people find information, keep everything neatly cataloged, and prevent noisy distractions!=Background: A runaway at a young age, Corrina has always had a love of the written word. She used to break into museums full of books and read them without anyone the wiser. Thus, her education has been sheltered. Later she returned to curate the museum, turning it into a functional library. She considers herself author Melvil Dewey's biggest fan.=Traits: (DM) Academic, beautiful, humorous=532***=Ida Zedema=Impetuous Pilot="Don't worry, I'm gonna take this one nice and easy. I'll only do a few inter-atmosphere skims and barrel rolls."=Appearance: Ida's short, red hair is a stark contrast to her mocha-colored skin. She wears a tactical vest over a black shirt with rolled up sleeves.=Roleplaying: Ida enjoys joking and laughing with her comrades, and she always has a friendly smile. When she gets in trouble for one of her unscheduled maneuvers, she develops a sheepish look.=Personality: Normally calm and composed, Ida unleashes her wild side only at very specific times. She rarely gives people any warning when she goes wild; she finds it more fun that way.=Motivation: She became a pilot because of the excitement she thought it would hold, but every captain she worked under has tried to curtail her antics. That doesn't mean she can't slip in a few exciting maneuvers every so often, though.=Background: Ida led a very quiet life in her small farming community. The boredom made her crave action, so she shipped off-world at her first chance. She trained as a pilot, but found corporate and military work boring. As a freelancer, she still gets stuck on boring jobs, but faces fewer consequences when she pulls an extreme stunt. The types of crews she hires on with usually don't mind, so long as she doesn't damage anything. Though unpredictable, she knows her ships and rarely pushes them beyond their abilities.=Traits: (JA) Adventurer, eccentric, pilot=533***=Baron Emmitt Tanbel=Obnoxious Hunter="Whoa! Did you see that one? That one must be a boy. Damn thing needs underwear. Get me the phase plasma rifle, 40-watt range. I am taking that sucker down!"=Appearance: The Baron is an overweight man of less than average height. His hair is worn in an ear-length bob, and he has a well-groomed beard. He is often seen in hunting jumpsuits with expensive boots and gear.=Roleplaying: He loves to make rude jokes in any company. Emmitt is loud and he says whatever comes to mind. =Personality: The baron has no internal filter and no subtlety. This carries over to his sense of humor, which is pretty good but is never censored. =Motivation: Emmitt's great passion is alien game hunting. Several times a year he goes on galactic safari out to the far reaches of civilized space to hunt the most fascinating creatures.=Background: Baron Tanbel is from the House Tanbel, a minor but stable planetary house. The Tanbels have two traditions: exceptional recombinant agriculture and alien game hunting. Emmitt is an established geneticist, but his true love comes from camping and hunting with his friends and family out on fringe worlds. He has a private ship that is part museum and taxonomy lab. Emmitt is known for his blunt sense of humor, which serves him well hunting, but he has upset more than one royal party.=Traits: (PV) Humorous, outdoorsman, royalty, scientist=534***=Faisal al-Karim =Confused Young Man="Sayyid, you are new to our planet, yes? It is your wish to find a good place to stay?"=Appearance: Faisal dresses for travel, wearing a long, durable robe and dusty sandals. His garb suggests that he's trying to hang on to his Arabian identity.=Roleplaying: He's hesitant and unsure of himself, and his accent comes and goes. =Personality: Faisal is unsure of his cultural identity. Part of him feels a sense of duty to be an Arab, while another part wishes to just be himself.=Motivation: He wants to be liked, and to like himself.=Background: Faisal was 12 when his extremely religious parents died in a failed attempt to colonize another planet. He was raised on that world by an agnostic cousin, and while he loves his adoptive family, he seeks to return to the old religious ways that his parents practiced. However, the Arab group that he has fallen in with is a criminal gang that justifies itself by preying on unbelievers. Most believers are not criminals, but he has managed to find just the wrong group. The gang keeps Faisal on the periphery, waiting for a chance to judge his loyalty, so he is still unaware of their crimes. The PCs might meet him on a job, looking for a group from out of town to lead to a local bar-allegedly to drum up business, but really to set them up to be drugged and robbed blind. =Traits: (KS) Criminal, eccentric, impoverished, religious, zealot=535***=Remiah Dash=Reluctant Crew Member="I know we're on alert. But that's an incredible specimen of evolved plant life over there. It might even have a rudimentary sentience. Don't bother informing the lieutenant. It'll just take a moment to document it. No, I don't need a sidearm." =Appearance: Remiah sports a mop of brown hair and peers through thick eyeglasses with wide oval lenses. Short and plump, one wonders how she passed the fitness exam.=Roleplaying: She walks, talks, and acts like a civilian wearing military dress-which is what she'll always be at heart. Even when told to stand at attention, the best she can manage still looks like slouch.=Personality: With the mind of a scientist, Remiah is easily distracted by every possibility of new discovery. She is meticulous as a researcher, even brilliant at times, but absent-minded about more pressing concerns, especially starship security. She regards the call to battle-stations as an annoyance.=Motivation: To endure her term of service, she makes the most of the opportunity by indulging in what scientific research she can slide in between her normal duties.=Background: Remiah Dash was a leading researcher at a lab that was accidentally destroyed when she became so engrossed by a bit of minutia that she failed to notice that an experiment had gone critical. The judge gave her a choice: jail or starship service. She chose the stars.=Traits: (TT) Eccentric, military, scientist=536***=Katrina Folsom=Lighthearted Hacker="Don't mess with me or else I'll change your gender, empty your account, and post your com number on the singles boards as ‘Desperately seeking someone for rear entry.'"=Appearance: She has short-cropped black hair with streaks of gold and braided beads. Her eyes are concealed behind VR goggles wirelessly connected to a datacomp on her wrist. She wears baggy cargo pants and large, steel-toed shoes. Her shirt reads, "Reality is overrated."=Roleplaying: Katrina communicates best via VR avatars, using icons of unicorns and bouncing gnomes with pointed red hats. In the real world, she casually waves off discussion with uninterested comments; Katrina spends most of her time online.=Personality: She's an anarchist and practical joker. Katrina will empty your cred account and wire the funds to the urban neo-terrorist league as a joke, or just as readily put someone's face on every vidscreen as "Most Wanted." She doesn't fully register how much trouble she could get into, but she has a good heart.=Motivation: Everything exists for her amusement and everyone is fair game.=Background: She's young, impetuous, and a skilled hacker, but Katrina doesn't take anyone seriously. She has a little bit of a god complex and doesn't suffer fools gladly, but in the VR arena she's top dog. Anything is possible with a little effort and creativity and she's eager for a challenge. The real world and its problems just don't interest her that much.=Traits: (DM) Crafter, humorous=537***=Lisa Kyron, Ph.D.=Determined Intellectual="Robotics and artificial intelligence are ready to merge, and that merger will take place in synthetic organisms. It will have all the benefits of biology, but none of the weaknesses. Cells will combine with alloys to create a new life form that will surpass all that have come before it."=Appearance: Slightly overweight, she wears a special mechanized leg brace that assists her in walking. She dresses stylishly, but often wears a lab coat when working.=Roleplaying: Lisa loves to teach others about her work, and she has a very engaging style when doing so. She uses her hands to illustrate her topic when lecturing.=Personality: Although she may be one of the smartest people on the planet, she never talks down to others. She is friendly, likable, and is highly regarded by all who know her.=Motivation: She severely injured her leg while whitewater rafting, and has since dedicated her life to designing robotic prosthetic systems that rehabilitate or replace organic structures. Recently she has jumped even farther ahead, as she is now creating synthetic organs to replace a person's biological systems.=Background: A child prodigy who exceeded all expectations, Lisa has attended the finest schools and has always graduated at the top of her class. She is the leading expert in her field and has earned the respect of her peers. Some fear that she is crossing a line with her latest research, but she dismisses such claims as unfounded.=Traits: (PB) Academic, charming, genius, scientist=538***=Yi Dasque=Addicted Hacker="Before I could afford the ‘jack, I would spend hours imagining that I was inside the net. Once they installed it, I jacked in for 72 hours straight. I will do anything to stay connected."=Appearance: Yi is a disheveled woman, average in height, with stringy hair. She has large circles under her eyes. Her clothes are ratty and worn.=Roleplaying: In person, Yi is despondent. She mumbles when she talks and has no desire to carry on a conversation. Online, she is personable, pleasant, and sociable.=Personality: Yi is a woman with no willpower and an addictive personality. She is obsessed with being connected to the net. Online, Yi is a goddess, a dynamic figure who is in her true element.=Motivation: She craves being online and has no ability to control her craving. She will do anything to feed her addiction. =Background: Yi had an average childhood on a technologically advanced world. She always had an affinity for computers, especially virtual reality. With the money from her first job she purchased a neural interface jack, allowing her to enter the virtual world. The experience changed her life in the worst way possible. She slowly withdrew from the real world, losing her job, friends, and home. To survive, she eventually turned her computer skills to hacking. Today she lives in a rundown apartment with no furniture and an incredible computer setup.=Traits: (PV) Criminal, impoverished, white collar=539***=Drandon Galondreki=Greedy Collaborator="It's not about takin' sides, luv. Human. Alien. Whazzit matter, eh? The question you gotta ask yourself is this: Does being friendly to ol' Drandon make life easier or harder for you going forward?"=Appearance: He wears a suit coat and tie manufactured from sleek new materials provided by the alien occupiers. His hair is slicked back and he wears a strange earpiece made from alien materials and technology.=Roleplaying: Sometimes he gets a blank look, like a seizure, when the aliens are downloading information from him.=Personality: Drandon gets annoyed when people judge him. Words like "collaborator" and "traitor" don't fit his way of thinking. It was a small price to pay, letting the aliens attach that device to his head. He thinks the resistance movement is filled with fools, whose suffering is self-inflicted. He holds no grudge, though.=Motivation: The alien invasion was an opportunity to finally get rich, and he intends to stay rich.=Background: He was a career salesman, always trying to unload one crummy product after the next. But once the aliens came, Drandon finally got the chance to sell something of quality: access. If people need something from the aliens, they have to go through him. He lives like a king now, with the best of everything: food, women, servants, and a fantastic place to live.=Traits: (TT) Political, wealthy=540***=Dennis Cogwettle=Irritable Repairman="Holy crap! Did you clean this brand-new plasma ion generator with FURNITURE POLISH??! What are you, a moron?"=Appearance: Dennis is a thin man in his mid-fifties, with black, wispy hair that looks like it has never been combed. He wears leather overalls and several pairs of electronic spectacles.=Roleplaying: Grumpy and short of words, Dennis can be grating and downright insulting with stupid people, which includes pretty much everyone.=Personality: Sick of people bringing in items they have tried to "fix" themselves and expecting him to clean up the resulting mess, Dennis thinks everyone else in the world is incompetent or maliciously stupid. He wishes people would just order their parts, pay for them, and never come back.=Motivation: Dennis wants nothing more than to be left in peace and quiet so he can work on his passion: drawing schematics for high-tech machine parts.=Background: Growing up, Dennis loved to work with his hands. With his genius-level IQ, he's had jobs as a military mechanic, experimental technology builder, and chemist. He finally settled down to open his own business, only to find out that once he was in the private sector, he had to deal with the public...most of whom were, in his opinion, morons. Unfortunately the bulk of his income comes from repair work, which means he has to talk to clueless people and fix their incompetent mistakes.=Traits: (MN) Business, crafter, genius, zealot=541***=General Gregor Voldstad=Retired Mentor="Back in my day we would have sent them packing with their tails between their legs. Did I tell you about the time on Cygnus IV? No? Well there we were…"=Appearance: He's a balding man with stark white hair emerging just above his ears, flowing into large sideburns and a full beard. Deep crow's feet arch from dark gray eyes that still look about intently. He dresses in pressed pants and shirt of deep blue and carries a handcrafted walking cane tipped in bronze.=Roleplaying: Though in his latter years, the general is still eager when speaking. He'll frequently regale others with stories of his past, tying his experience to current events and steering the discussion off course.=Personality: He's a hallmark of days when honor defined a man, and passionately talks about his many campaigns. The general has little regard for those who question authority. He's apt to quiet down when the reality of time passing him by is brought up.=Motivation: He desperately seeks to remain relevant in his twilight years. He's eager to help those that will take him seriously and leverage his experience.=Background: A veteran of six campaigns and two wars, the general is a highly decorated military officer and something of a tactical genius. He eventually mustered out due to his trick leg-he had it replaced twice-and is noteworthy to anyone who may have studied military history and tactics.=Traits: (DM) Genius, famous, military=542***=Becky Martinez=Friendly Child Prophet="They're almost here! Everybody listen! They're almost here!"=Appearance: Becky is a young girl, about 10 years old. Her dark brown hair is pulled into pigtails or a ponytail, and she is often wearing overalls.=Roleplaying: Full of energy and imagination, Becky runs around and tells everyone about the aliens who are coming to the planet. Everyone thinks this is just her latest game, but sometimes she says strange things, like reciting all the prime numbers up to 7,907, or shouting strange, nonsensical words that might almost be a language.=Personality: Kind and friendly, but a bit shy, Becky wouldn't hurt a fly. Her latest imaginary game of aliens has some people worried. She completely believes it, though, and gets pouty when people don't believe her.=Motivation: She wants to prepare people for the arrival of her alien friends, who speak to her from the sky.=Background: Becky started hearing the voices a few months ago and didn't really think too much about them. The more the voices explained that they were aliens who would be landing on earth shortly for first contact, the more excited Becky got. Just like the voices asked her to, she kept telling every adult about them. She even sent a letter to the president, but her mother said that probably wouldn't go through. The townspeople are starting to worry about Becky, but she knows everything is alright. The aliens tell her so.=Traits: (JA) Child, eccentric, religious=543***=Boris von Bolide =Foolhardy Hero="If it's a fight you want, Boris von Bolide will make your dreams come true!"=Appearance: At over 6'6" tall and built like a bulldozer, Boris is physically intimidating. =Roleplaying: Boris not terribly intelligent. He refers to himself in third person, mixes up his idioms, and often sees opportunity for heroism where a more subtle approach may work.=Personality: Boris is not all there, but is a caricature of a heroic figure.=Motivation: He lives to be a classic hero-brave, strong, righteous.=Background: A natural athlete, Boris played for the Galactic Gravityball League, but a tragic accident in his third season left him with a brain injury. He recovered physically, but hasn't quite been himself since. An incident in a bar became a formative event for him: He stopped a robbery (and possibly worse) by beating up the four thieves before they could get away with the money and the hostages. Since then, he considers himself to be some kind of heroic figure. He has the best body armor he can buy (which is excellent, given his considerable earnings from gravityball), but mostly relies on hand-to-hand combat. He has a habit of showing up whenever something big is about to go down, such as a group of adventurers taking down a major target, or a delicate negotiation and trade between rival gangs.=Traits: (KS) Adventurer, aggressive, eccentric, humorous, warrior, wealthy=544***=Rowena Idain=Inoffensive Infiltrator="My ‘caboose?' I am unaware of any impediment attached to my backside. Please explain your idiom more specifically."=Appearance: Her long, purple hair stands out, as do her brilliant, almond-shaped green eyes. A synthetic leather bodysuit with buckles and straps leaves little to the imagination. Heeled boots add several inches to her height, a utility belt fits snugly around her waist, and a wrist computer blinks for instruction.=Roleplaying: Rowena is uninformed of many cultural expressions that we take for granted; she has a childlike approach when speaking to others. She is full of inquiries but otherwise defers to others and responds only to direct questions.=Personality: She is unassuming like a child, absorbing the details of her surroundings. Rowena understands right and wrong, but the nuances of social interaction elude her for now.=Motivation: An adventurer for hire, Rowena's goals mirror the group consensus and no further. Personally, she seeks to understand more about the cultures that surround her and the nature of her background.=Background: Rowena is an escaped prototype corporate espionage clone. Her purple hair is a genetic marker used to identify such tools until perfected. Having gone rogue on an operation, a defensive measure wiped her memory-but she retained her abilities. She's run afoul of corporate security a few times and moved off-world, but is still hunted. Her abilities have caught the attention of a few shadow groups who use her talents for hire.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, child, stealthy=545***=Colonel Edgair "Numps" Numpusari=Fussy Bureaucrat="If I can't see my face in your armor, you'll be spending the night in the brig, me boyo."=Appearance: Edgair is always flushed, making his pale blond mustache and slicked-down hair stand out even more. His eyes bug out slightly, giving him a fish-like appearance.=Roleplaying: He inserts himself in every situation and looks for opportunities to fuss, micromanage, and find fault.=Personality: Edgair is entirely without self-confidence-so he makes up for it by criticizing everyone else. Fussy to the last, he demands perfection in every area except the important ones-a soldier getting deployed to the wrong drop zone is fine by Edgair, as long as the soldier's power armor is well-polished.=Motivation: Everything Edgair does is intended to make him look much more competent and on top of things than he actually is. He's petrified that someone will discover that he bribed his way into his position.=Background: Called "Numps" by the men and women unfortunate to serve under him, Edgair is a complete prat, a martinet who neither earned nor deserves his position, and who wouldn't know which end of a laser rifle to fire. (But, by gum, that rifle would be well-polished!) He fusses over all the wrong things, and no one knows exactly how he's held onto his job. Anyone who learned that he bought his rank would have leverage over a key figure in the space marines, making Numps a dangerous liability.=Traits: (MR) Eccentric, humorous, military, white collar=546***=Sven Danehost=Interstellar Viking="The star people were given to us, by the mother, as a source of nourishment and plunder."=Appearance: Sven is tall, blond, and thickly muscled, with a thick layer of fat and legs like springs.=Roleplaying: Among his people Sven is bold and challenging, a raider hero. He drinks heavily and slaps shoulders, calling on his people to do their best to imitate his bold ways.=Personality: Sven is a hard man, ready to do what he must to survive. He does for himself first, but is generous with the remainder-knowing he may later need aid.=Motivation: Winters are harsh. A man who tries to support too many others risks being tied down when the enemy pursues, so he keeps his ties light.=Background: Sven has lived a hard life, challenged by the frigid weather and unyielding ground of his world, Danehome. His exploits are many, though few of the star people have ever seen him; he sneaks through the perimeter nets with the patience of a hunter. During the long winters, the scientists and other visitors lose a lot of food and materials from the stars to his predation. He is famous among his people as a raider; they always disavow knowledge of his whereabouts, desperate for the supplies necessary to survive the harsh winters.=Traits: (SM) Primal, notorious, stealthy=547***=Raquel Shajn-Schaldach=Sympathetic Scientist="This alien species is being treated unjustly, Captain. We have to do something about it!"=Appearance: Raquel is below average height, cute with short-cropped dark hair, and a pert nose. She has noticeably long eyelashes. She wears a white uniform jumpsuit, indicating her position on the starship's science team.=Roleplaying: She sticks up her forefinger for emphasis, but has to catch herself when addressing a superior officer.=Personality: She is understanding and sympathetic to a fault. Her desire to right perceived injustices often overrides her sense of duty as a neutral observer. She's willing to take foolish, unnecessary risks on behalf of others when she forgets herself. Raquel is prone to seeing only the good in any species she studies.=Motivation: Raquel wants to be a good scientist who is capable of controlling her passions.=Background: Always fascinated by the strange and wonderful, even the squirmiest insects and sea life caught her curious eye. She channeled this interest into a study of xenobiology. Though her temperament wasn't particularly suited to a life in uniform, her specialized skill set led to quick recruitment aboard an exploratory starship. Her expertise makes her invaluable, but her inclination to always take up the cause of any alien they encounter makes her a liability. The captain has learned to anticipate her impulses and has asked her to work at keeping them in check.=Traits: (TT) Eccentric, scientist=548***=Ensign Derro Cline=Jaded Soldier="Explore the exciting life of the galactic navy; endless stretches of void, monotonous duties, and, occasionally, running a battery of boring reports on whatever new rock we've come across."=Appearance: Derro is nondescript. He is of average height and weight and wears the duty uniform of a low-level naval officer. Derro keeps his face clean and his hair in a regulation cut. His most notable feature is his ever-present bored expression.=Roleplaying: He is nonplussed about everything. Derro is polite and answers questions, but it's obvious that he is bored with his duty. He constantly reminds non-naval people about how much better they have it.=Personality: Derro is jaded. Once full of enthusiastic excitement, he has been worn down by several years of tedious duties with little to break the monotony. He longs for something different, but has convinced himself that this is as good as it gets for him.=Motivation: He lacks motivation-spectacularly so, in fact.=Background: Derro grew up in poverty and always dreamed of something better. He wanted to see more of the galaxy and thought that the galactic navy would be just the ticket. He eagerly signed up for the academy and was a model, if average, student. Unfortunately, the reality of the navy didn't live up to his expectations. While Derro is thankful to have a career, he soon grew disenchanted with his work. He's resigned himself to having an unexciting life.=Traits: (WC) Military, white collar=549***=Joe Hooke=Rock-Climbing Scientist="Preon shipping would have led to an empire-wide energy boom."=Appearance: Joe stands 6'5", with a lean muscular build reflecting an active lifestyle. His hair often stands up in patches unless he holds it down with gel. He neglects fashion, preferring more protective weaves.=Roleplaying: Warm but demanding, Joe wants to be sure that any plan has been thought through, including several levels of unlikely contingencies.=Personality: Every fail-safe should have a backup fail-safe. When he's finally in action he moves with practiced confidence, but it's a pain getting him started.=Motivation: After his lab vanished in an uncontrolled preon reaction, nothing feels quite safe. The total nature of the lab's destruction leaves him awake at night wondering: Was it sabotage-perhaps by rival researchers, or energy producers? Or maybe it was shoddy construction, one valve stuck at the wrong moment?=Background: Dr. Hooke's cutting-edge research got him onto the preon structure team. He joined a handful of leading scientists at a facility orbiting a preon star, extracting wisps of unstable material and manipulating it to maintain its high-density energy, while making it safe to transport. Their research was showing great promise when Joe rotated off for mandatory leave. Three days later, rock climbing in Denessa IV's badlands, he saw a report that the station was gone-and his bosses sent a coded "disappear" message to him. He's been running ever since.=Traits: (SM) Adventurer, focal, scientist=550***=Caliyanirah "Cali" Chase=Guilty Survivor="I can't bear the responsibility of telling you the truth about the aliens. It might drive you mad. It certainly has me."=Appearance: Disheveled and dirty, it looks as though she hasn't bathed in weeks. Her hair is kept under a kerchief and her clothes are ragged. She's a far cry from the frumpy but well-groomed suburban mom she was when the ordeal began.=Roleplaying: Paranoid, she often looks behind her, thinking the aliens are closing in and ready to snatch her up. She's chewed her nails down to the quick.=Personality: Much of her original personality has been siphoned off by the secret she witnessed. She is twitchy and shies away from physical contact. Attempts to understand her condition or ease her guilt are met with hysterics.=Motivation: She must hold the secret fast. She can't tell. No, that would be horrible. Things are bad enough under the alien occupation, but if they knew what she knew, it would be the end for them all.=Background: She was a suburban mom driving her children and a few of their friends home in her SUV when the authorities, acting at the behest of the aliens, took her in for questioning. She never saw the children again. What she saw in the aliens' custody changed her. She either escaped or was let loose; she isn't sure, and now she wanders in desperation.=Traits: (TT) Eccentric, impoverished=551***=Sylvia Greenman=Wealthy Doctor="That's it sweetie, drink down your medicine and I'll give you a piece of candy."=Appearance: Tall and thin, Sylvia has long blond hair and lavender eyes. She wears a white smock and is accompanied by a number of helper robots at all times.=Roleplaying: Graceful and soft-spoken, Sylvia is quiet and even-voiced; she never gets flustered or excited no matter what is going on around her.=Personality: Sylvia is passionate about two things: medicine and the patients she serves. She has a calming manner about her that almost immediately puts even guarded people at ease. =Motivation: To bring medicine and education to the under-served populations of the poor and neglected.=Background: Sylvia was born into a phenomenally wealthy family. Ever since she could talk, she wanted to be a doctor, and her parents encouraged her. Once she graduated from medical school, she decided she wanted to practice medicine not for the rich and famous, but for the poor, the forgotten, and the despised. Her parents, once they got over their initial shock, supported her wholeheartedly by providing her with all the newest medical technology, setting up several foundations to contribute to her work with the poor, and even purchasing her state-of-the-art medical androids. The androids assist her with numerous functions in the clinics, and also act as a bodyguard when she travels into the less-than-savory areas she serves.=Traits: (MN) Business, medic, wealthy=552***=Claudiu Jasson=Intrigued Painter="I can tell you're intrigued from the hue of the skin just under your eyes."=Appearance: He has a neatly trimmed reddish-blond mustache and green eyes. His head is bald and he has piercings through his ear lobes and septum. A trendy satchel is slung over his shoulder. His maroon synthweave suit is functional, with tasteful pinstripes and a police access badge hanging over his tie.=Roleplaying: Claudiu's accent is difficult to place and he quickly jumps into a conversation to share his insight. While listening he leans back, clasping his hands together, and leans his chin upon them in thought. He becomes animated when discussing art, portraits in particular.=Personality: He's soft-spoken and diligent at the workplace, but when faced with a challenge he engages with unbridled enthusiasm.=Motivation: He seeks to understand the intricacies of the expressions of the human face as a canvas.=Background: Trained as an artist, Claudiu has an affinity for drawing and painting portraits. His home is awash in them, many drawn from his experiences on the police force. By day he crafts digital likenesses of perpetrators from crime scenes, using bits of video and eyewitness accounts to craft a fully animated reproduction. His job allows him to study facial expressions in depth, his true passion. Claudiu maintains that he can discern a person's emotional and psychological state from their facial expressions, making him something of an amateur detective.=Traits: (DM) Artist, police=553***=John Candor=Security Controller="Section 52A, Camera 3. Oooh, you're gonna hate the laser grid up ahead."=Appearance: Candor's spiky hair and disheveled coat show how little he cares about his appearance. Perpetually surrounded by control sticks and camera monitors, his eyes are strained beyond bloodshot.=Roleplaying: Candor is twitchy. His head darts from one monitor to the next, and he has a bottle of eye drops nearby at all times. He'll often lure in pirates by faking damage to a base, only to bring up a fully operational defense grid once they are too far in to get out.=Personality: John Candor has always been a control freak. He enjoys toying with people and was the sort to torture small animals when he was a child.=Motivation: He loves toying with people, and he cares less about the security of the bases he guards than he does about having a new "toy" to play with.=Background: When John Candor found a job that put him in charge of the remote controlled defenses of multiple uninhabited supply depots, he fell in love. With his bevy of remote controlled drones and security cameras, he keeps one step ahead of the many pirates who try to break in, and sometimes he lets them inside just so he can toy with him. One can see an almost disappointed look on Candor's face when a ship docks with a valid resupply code.=Traits: (JA) Eccentric, police, power hungry, white collar=554***=Kosmia Delaney=Garrulous Travel Agent="A space tour is the ultimate family vacation-it's cheaper to see Mars than you think!"=Appearance: Six feet tall and 300 lbs., Kosmia has red hair, bright green eyes, and a winning smile. She's 85, but life extension treatments keep her looking 40, except for the many laugh lines around her eyes.=Roleplaying: Kosmia gestures expansively when she speaks, makes casual physical contact with her conversation partners, and laughs often.=Personality: Talkative and outgoing, Kosmia is a born saleswoman who combines genuine enthusiasm for her job with just enough manipulation to be wildly successful at it.=Motivation: Kosmia wants to expand into extrasolar tourism, and she's looking for a big break-something that will bring tourists to her door in droves.=Background: One of the most successful bookers of space tours on Luna, Kosmia is well-known and well-liked by almost everyone. She charges fair rates and has a reputation for running safe, reliable tours. Apart from a couple of administrative staffers, her business-Kosmia's Space Tours-is a one-woman operation. Kosmia leverages her extensive network of friends and business associates throughout the solar system to book passage aboard tour ships as well as private vessels. Because she won't deal with captains who don't move heaven and earth to keep her customers safe, she's made several enemies over the years.=Traits: (MR) Business, charming, entertainment, white collar=555***=Rezika Oraclebearer=Spirit-Talking Merchant="The oracle says, ‘Fortune shared is fortune redoubled.' Join us for a meal, travelers, and let us trade."=Appearance: Her blond hair is shoulder length, woven with long bolts and threaded through large nuts. She wears handmade leather tool belts, with carefully polished wrenches and screw drivers from the days before at her belt. Her eyes are bright and green, her skin tanned from long hours under the sun.=Roleplaying: Rezika consults her oracle before taking on new tasks, asking the spirits of elder days for guidance. =Personality: She's unpredictable, adapting to each moment as filtered through her oracle. She believes its pronouncements absolutely, but interprets its "commands" in the way that best benefits her tribe-even when it costs her directly.=Motivation: The oracle is unique to her tribe; clearly it is the reason that her clan did not fall to man-eating and barbarism. The selfless spin on what she reads is her own sense of what the world should be.=Background: Rezika is the trade leader, responsible for ensuring that the clan has enough resources to survive. The oracle-a handheld computer of some sort-is her most precious tool. She leads salvage parties into the wastelands, trusting that the oracle's predictions and her tribesmen will keep her safe. She has a keen memory for prices and quantities, and trades skillfully. She leads her people indirectly away from the poisoned lands, toward a place where they can settle.=Traits: (SM) Leader, merchant, primal, saintly=556***=Arron Doryar=Wise Cybernetic Monk="Connected as I am to all this information, I realize that compassion cannot be replaced by knowledge."=Appearance: Arron's bald head is covered in tattoos and wires. He wears purple robes and sits in a lotus position. His eyes glow blue when he accesses information from the data-stream.=Roleplaying: Arron has immersed himself fully in his vows of his order and the tenets of the data-stream. His speech is a mixture of Eastern thought and random code snippets.=Personality: Arron has compassion for all things, and he is always pleased to meet new people. While in the stream, all traces of personality are removed and he becomes a detached conduit for the data.=Motivation: Arron is a bodhisattva, one who seeks to spread peace and compassion before being taken up into enlightenment. Since he was connected directly to the stream, he seeks to spread truth and help people.=Background: Though the tenets of Arron's order have not changed over the millennia, their methods have. Embracing and molding the new with the old, Arron's order began to connect directly into the worldwide data-stream to further immerse in the world. One of the friendliest of the Monks of the Order of Bhumi, Arron searches for information for any who request it of him. His results are generally cryptic, a side effect of how he processes the information, but they often lead people on the right path.=Traits: (JA) Ancient, counselor, mysterious, religious=557***=Giovanni Delseppi=Debauched Salesman="I can fulfill your wildest desires, whatever they may be!"=Appearance: A dark-skinned and incredibly handsome man with dark, smoldering eyes, Giovanni dresses to the nines.=Roleplaying: Giovanni is the ultimate salesman. He is always trying to close a deal or make contacts. He treats everyone as a potential client, and never outright says "no" to any request, though he is a master of half-truths and double-talk.=Personality: Despite his profession, Giovanni is not a sleaze or a pervert. He genuinely loves the pleasures of the flesh and feels everyone should have a partner who can please them in every way they desire....especially if that partner is one of his bots.=Motivation: Giovanni wants to close the deal, make the sale, and then celebrate in a drunken orgy till dawn.=Background: Growing up around his family's android factory, Giovanni was put to work in the family business straight out of college. After several years, he struck out on his own to start his own specialized android manufacturing facility, which provides robots for filmmakers and wealthy private individuals specifically designed to fulfill their owners' base needs. Though he quickly earned the ire of various robot rights groups and the moral majority, Giovanni is of the position that no press is bad press, and doesn't let little things like the ever-present protesters outside of his production facilities slow him down.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, business, leader, notorious, wealthy=558***=Susan Lee=Tragic Victim="You…can…all…go…to…hell."=Appearance: She is bound to her hover chair. Various tubes enter her forearms and throat. Her skin is scarred with third degree burns, and only her eyes show any signs of life. Her "voice" comes from a set of speakers on the hover chair.=Roleplaying: She uses vulgar language and insults everyone.=Personality: Susan is full of anger and spite that she is suffering and others are not.=Motivation: She wants to prove her theory before she dies. She is beginning to believe that her death will come first.=Background: Susan was a beautiful woman, but her intelligence far surpassed her appearance. She discovered particles that explained some of the most complex mysteries in physics. She was making progress on a starship that would be able to travel through worm holes and needed only to complete her experiments in a micro gravity environment. She was brought on board the space station Prometheus, and worked for months with its crew to perfect her latest designs. While working in her lab, another technician failed to observe proper safety procedures and a fire broke out. The technician and two others died as a result, but Susan lived despite being completely engulfed in flames and suffering multiple critical injuries. Years of recovery later, Susan is still completely dependent upon her hover chair, which is also a life support system that uses a neural uplink to facilitate communication.=Traits: (PB) Academic, genius, hideous, scientist=559***=Colonel Wirtanen Van Biesbroeck=Fussy Starship Officer="Everything-and everyone-has their place. You, sir, unfortunately are not in yours. Please see to the condition of your uniform, then return to your post immediately."=Appearance: He is tall, slight of build, looks somewhat younger than his actual age (mid-forties), and prim, even in his command uniform jumpsuit.=Roleplaying: Van Biesbroeck tries to surreptitiously apply hand sanitizer or some manner of antiseptic spray several times during his watch.=Personality: He has a strong sense of personal space and is particular about every last thing in it. He will step aside or lean back to make room if the opportunity presents itself or if another person gets too close. During first contact situations, he must fight down the revulsion he experiences when he must make physical contact with an alien species.=Motivation: He wants to make sure the crew can always pass a white glove inspection.=Background: If service on a starship only required him to report for duty, serve his allotted time, and work without interruption and with a minimal amount of interaction with subordinates, then he would be happy. He earned high marks after his initial tour of duty as part of a four-person team-each member running one eight-hour shift alone at a communications outpost. Then he was assigned to a starship. He thrived in his previous, somewhat solitary, existence and life aboard this ship has required many adjustments on his part.=Traits: (TT) Leader, military=560***=Zoe Bree=Cheerful Entertainer="Why the long face? Life can't be all that bad. If you tell me what's bothering you I'm sure that I have a song for it."=Appearance: Heavyset due to her lack of physical exercise, Zoe is always garishly dressed in bright, cheerful colors.=Roleplaying: She is always peppy and upbeat. Due to her psychic prowess she can find the hurting people in the room and speaks to them with comforting words. She gently uses her powers to ease their pain.=Personality: Zoe's personality is shaped by her power. She has difficulty shutting out other minds, so she is influenced by the emotions of those around her. Zoe keeps everyone's spirits up so that she can maintain her own.=Motivation: She wants to spread happiness so that she doesn't become depressed.=Background: Zoe discovered her psychic power at an early age when she began feeling the emotions of her classmates. She was diagnosed as a low-level psychic; she is empathic. Unfortunately, without a higher degree of ability Zoe is unable to screen the emotions around her. Since she didn't want to live in isolation, Zoe became a cantina singer in small space stations. She uses her entertainment and her empathic powers to ease the pain of patrons so that everyone can be happy for a while.=Traits: (WC) Entertainment, magical=561***=Boyd Zus=Unemployed Terraformer="I grew up in the hull of ship. I never woke up to a sunrise or the feel of grass under my feet. All I ever wanted was to work the land, but even the land is out to get me."=Appearance: Boyd is slightly overweight and on the tall side. He wears his hair simply and is always in need of a shave. He wears laborer's clothes.=Roleplaying: He always has a ready joke, often about himself. He lets things roll off his back with a shrug and a sigh.=Personality: Trying to keep up good spirits and be pleasant, Boyd is always disappointed when something doesn't work. He uses his humor to mask his despondency. =Motivation: He just wants to be a terraformer and to earn an honest living applying his trade.=Background: Boyd was born in space on a long haul freighter owned by his family. He grew up on that ship, and, unbeknownst to him, was continuously exposed to the propulsion field; he emits bursts of bio-sonic particles. These bursts disrupt machines that perform complex quantum manipulations, such as terraforming equipment. Having never lived planet-side, Boyd grew tired of space life and went to school for terraforming. He is quite knowledgeable on the subject, but every project he has worked on has failed. Now he is blacklisted in the business. If he was cured of his disorder, he could follow his dream.=Traits: (PV) Business, humorous, laborer=562***=Kemmar Graham=Confident Con Artist="Col. Agamar, isn't it? I met you at that party on Andaris. My wife? I didn't think you'd remember her, but she couldn't stop talking about you. She's a bit of a military fan…"=Appearance: To call Kemmar beautiful would be an understatement. He was graced with a perfectly proportioned face, deep mocha skin, and a smile that puts anyone at ease. He always dresses for the con, and everything he wears looks good on him.=Roleplaying: Kemmar dsicovered early on that looks only take you so far, and learned how to talk himself out of trouble. Even when people are realizing something isn't quite right, they're falling for his fast words.=Personality: Deep in his core, Kemmar is friendly and honest. These traits help him pull cons, but they also make him generous with his earnings. Most of his earnings actually go back to orphanages and starving people he has met on his journeys.=Motivation: He realized that life was unfair early on and decided that he might as well make it unfair in his favor.=Background: Kemmar has pulled all sorts of cons all over this galaxy. From low end to high end, he is a master of his craft and is often the first name on high-end criminals' lips when they need a con artist. Kemmar carefully chooses his targets, seeing himself more as a modern-day Robin Hood than an outright thief.=Traits: (JA) Beautiful, charming, criminal, saintly=563***=Melorah Colli=Scared Holo Star="I just love all my fans and the wonderful ways they show their love for me. This one I wrote especially for you, the fans!"=Appearance: Tall and svelte, Melorah's long, pink hair and flashy, holo-projecting clothing is the rage throughout the galaxy. Designers fight to get their clothes into Melorah's closet.=Roleplaying: Melorah isn't that bright when it comes to anything outside of the performing business. She perpetually dances about, listening to her latest song or just moving to some unheard beat. She is flirty with anyone she thinks is cute.=Personality: She just wants to be loved and cared for; she has an addictive personality that needs careful control. She craves attention and needs constant acknowledgment of her talents.=Motivation: Melorah's manager is into some pretty dirty stuff on the side, and he keeps trying to drag Melorah into it in order to pay off his debts. She wants to get away from him, but has a hard time leaving because of all the work he did to get her to the top.=Background: Melorah Colli is the latest thing to hit the charts across the galaxy. Her unique vocal style and permanently peppy attitude draw fans in by the millions. A lot of this is due to her manager's influence with criminal elements, and Melorah has gotten scared of exactly what that means. She can't get away, though, and feels she owes her manager for her success.=Traits: (JA) Artist, beautiful, entertainment=564***=Anselm Quom=Hidden Prince="The empire was a dream from which we've woken up. Let's worry about today's battle, not yesterday's delusions." =Appearance: Anselm is a handsome teenage boy, 5'10" with piercing blue eyes, brown hair, and a face never touched by acne.=Roleplaying: He moves with a body confidence that most teenagers lack; in addition to farm work and directing robots, he trains as a martial artist. He has confidence from his studies and the unconscious deference his guardians give him.=Personality: Despite teaching and theory, Anselm isn't eager to risk his life and those of his supporters-he measures twice before cutting.=Motivation: He doesn't want to risk the people who raised him-his family in reality, if not genetics. But he knows that loyalists gave their life to smuggle him out of the palace during the revolution; eventually that blood debt will be called due. =Background: For the first dozen years of his life, Anselm was raised on the hard work of an isolated farm by day, followed by extensive study and training at night. Learning comes easily to him, but there is a universe full of knowledge-and so far his physical training outstrips his ability to comprehend the structure underlying current politics. His innate caution warns him away from revealing himself; once he does, he is sure never to rest until the republic has fallen or he lies dead.=Traits: (SM) Mysterious, royalty, warrior=565***=Chandra Quarkseer=Disillusioned Priestess="As below, so above. Our universe is a mirror, founded on a cauldron of subquantum particles."=Appearance: Chandra dresses for maximum effect, wearing robes of pale gray with silvered swirls and near-patterns that flow across her clothing as she moves. Her ceremonial black blindfold draws attention to her hidden eyes, and away from her ordinary stature and mousy brown hair.=Roleplaying: She speaks calmly, speaking in threes for emphasis. Her face flushes and her ears turn a bright red when she drinks a glass of wine-which she does often.=Personality: Chandra loves the attention she receives as a seer. She's not above hamming it up, drawing out the sacred observations with an extended unveiling.=Motivation: This isn't bad as a fallback job. She clandestinely sells private viewings, describing the quantum reflection of a client after much...compensated study.=Background: After finishing her advanced degree in subquantum physics, Chandra found that employers required an additional 7-10 years of study and proven lines of research before they would make her an offer. Her funding would never stretch that far, so she looked for a gig that would accept her current qualifications. She soon signed on as a priestess of the Church of the Subquanta. She interprets particle activity, drawing inferences from the interactions and collisions of quarks, and pronouncing the state of the local universe. It's not ideal, but at least she gets to keep using state-of-the-art equipment.=Traits: (SM) Counselor, humorous, religious=566***=Lady Erin/Cassandra Okimo=Body-Swapping Party Girl="I love this body, so young, so pretty. Ahh, to be young again. Please bring the car around, the weekend is starting and I don't want to miss a thing."=Appearance: Lady Okimo is a young, attractive woman with raven hair atop a high forehead, and pale blue eyes. =Roleplaying: Erin flirts, casually touching people while talking, and her speech is littered with innuendo.=Personality: Erin is uninhibited and unbridled, but inhabits the body of Cassandra, a rather prudish and conservative woman.=Motivation: Erin is looking for any type of thrill, typically in torrid affairs, catfights, and excessive parties. Her body donor is working for her education and a good life.=Background: Lady Erin Okimo is the head of the House Okimo, and is over 100 years old and quite frail. She approached Cassandra, a poor woman of considerable beauty who desired an education, and made her an offer: money and schooling in exchange for regular use of her body. Every weekend, Cassandra's mind is downloaded to a virtual university where she receives the finest education, and Erin's mind is uploaded into Cassandra's body. Erin then takes the name "Cassandra Okimo" and goes out partying for the weekend. Cassandra is scared of what is being done with her body, though she needs the money, and Lady Erin is having more and more trouble giving it back at the end of each weekend.=Traits: (PV) Ancient, beautiful, leader, royalty=567***=Haysen, King of Waverly Drive =Neighborhood Despot="Welcome to the safe zone. You wanna live here? Safe from the aliens? Then make me happy."=Appearance: He wears an oversized plaid sports coat with the work overalls of a laborer.=Roleplaying: When considering a trade for entry into the neighborhood safe zone, he'll scratch the back of his head and mutter, "I dunno..." before demanding the most outlandish thing he can think of.=Personality: Haysen is a relentless bully, crude and uncouth, and demoralizes those in his power. He wonders how people can suffer such humiliation on the promise that he'll take care of them. He thinks of them as sheep, and himself and his fellow goons as wolves.=Motivation: He wants food, drink, fine things, and sex-in whatever order he can get them.=Background: When the aliens started segregating people into camps, Haysen, a former trash collector, volunteered to run his area's safe zone-one of the few districts not under alien control. Haysen rightly suspects the aliens don't care whether people are in their camps or under human detention, so long as the people are in easy-to-fetch clusters. Haysen suspects the worst of the aliens' motives, so he figures, "Why not go out on top?" The folks who used to look down on him can pick up his stuff for a while. And that's just for starters.=Traits: (TT) Abhorrent, laborer=568***=Johnny Winter=Sleazy Holovid Producer="That's it, baby! The camera LOVES you! More tentacle, baby! Yeah! Flaunt it!"=Appearance: Johnny's perfect salon tan, bleached blond hair, sandals, and loud shirts left unbuttoned to display his washboard abs make him look like the quintessential beach bum. He never goes anywhere without a portable camera and a mini-computer full of waivers and legal agreements.=Roleplaying: Cool, laid-back, and charming, Johnny is carefree and casual. He is relentless in his pursuit of footage of pretty or exotic girls, trying any tactic to get them on camera-cajoling, bribery, or promises that it will help them land a film career.=Personality: Persistent and creative, Johnny goes after what he wants with confidence, though he doesn't waste time with a difficult prospect if others are available. He's a businessman first and foremost, and his job is procuring product.=Motivation: Johnny is the famous producer of the "Uninhibited Alien Girls" video series, and he aims to stay on top by getting the hottest material with the sexiest girls.=Background: After a clip Johnny shot at a frat party of a couple topless alien girls making out made him nearly a thousand dollars, he dropped out of college to pursue his career as a holovid producer. He seeks out hot spots where there will be sexy girls and lots of booze and never talks to a pretty woman without somehow trying to get her to take her clothes off for him. =Traits: (MN) Aggressive, charming, entertainment, notorious, wealthy=569***=Joseph Griffin=Shady Ship Inspector="The problem with these X1 models is that their stabilizers are crap. I'll let that go, but you've got an issue with your intake fluxxors. You get that fixed and I'll give you a clean bill of health."=Appearance: Griffin has slick brown hair, a cleanly shaven face, and a lean frame. His ship inspector's uniform only shows a few signs of dirt from the many ships he crawls around in.=Roleplaying: Griffin holds himself in a casual manner and jokes around, putting his targets at ease.=Personality: His kind and trustworthy exterior hides his greedy and unscrupulous nature well. He seems like the kind of guy who will cut you a break and then take you out for a beer.=Motivation: Griffin wants to rake in as much kickback money from his friend's corrupt mechanic shop as possible.=Background: Griffin's position as a ship inspector lets him single out ships to inspect. Griffin is very friendly when he comes aboard and always tells marks he'll overlook the small issues he finds. Inevitably, he discovers one major repair he can't overlook and regulations say it has to be fixed before the ship leaves planet. Fortunately, Griffin can direct them to a guy who can fix it cheap. Unfortunately, it's a scam and the repairs end up going beyond reasonable costs. Many captains have found their engine was scavenged for parts and patched up just enough to get them out of orbit, causing major trouble for their ships.=Traits: (JA) Business, charming, criminal=570***=Darrius Pyle=Black-Market Dealer="My friend, this is the best sim-sex you will ever have! I'll even throw in a bonus threesome chip if you act now!"=Appearance: Somewhat short, his thick black hair is greased back and glued down. His long, crooked nose sticks out plainly and he has small, beady eyes. Darrius' attire is gaudy and mismatched, with greasy stains on his sleeves. A portable and battered vidcom is slung over one shoulder.=Roleplaying: Darrius rubs his hands together eagerly and can't help himself at getting excited when talking about the latest perverted simulation he's come up with. He'll do nearly anything to close a deal, and whines about the loss he's going to take. He's the penultimate used car salesman.=Personality: A cowardly snake, Darrius peddles black market simulation chips to anyone with the credits to spare. He'd give up his grandmother if the authorities came asking, and has no allegiance to anyone.=Motivation: Darrius is only in it for the money to fund his next "hit," and takes some pleasure at how lewd a simulation he can think up.=Background: Once a talented programmer, Darrius worked on the first generation of sim-chip technology-synthetic environments that users could slot directly into their brains. He fiddled with the technology and its use in porn as a diversion. Unfortunately, the early versions were highly addictive and Darrius soon lost everything. Now he codes out of a back alley to a dedicated clientele.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, crafter, humorous=571***=Logan Vokash=Greedy Facilitator="For the right price, I can make anything happen. You heard right: anything."=Appearance: Logan is utterly, deliberately nondescript in every way: average build, plain features, ordinary clothes. Nothing about him stands out. He can blend in just about anywhere.=Roleplaying: It's impossible to meet Logan without wanting to shower afterward-he oozes corruption and amorality. Talking to him is like conversing with an uncaring devil.=Personality: Logan is scum, and he's okay with that. He has no morals whatsoever, and he'll arrange literally anything within his power if the price is right. Spineless and venal, he never takes direct action, always working through intermediaries instead.=Motivation: He's motivated by pure, naked, unalloyed greed. Logan wants to be richer than God.=Background: Logan describes himself as a "facilitator," and in the cyberpunk underworld, he's well-known for his ability to "make things happen." Anyone who needs a layer or two of anonymity between themselves and an unsavory arms deal, a political murder, a corporate espionage mission, or the production of a new street drug can come to Logan and be assured of discretion-and a complete absence of morality. Logan has a talent for figuring out how to make things happen, even when he doesn't know much about the actual mechanics, and he has an extensive network of contacts to call upon. He connects people, acquires resources, oversees operations, and then steps back into the shadows to look for his next opportunity.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, business, criminal, notorious=572***=Laranna Le'Zurkosko=Wandering Mechanic="Come in, come in! Whatever you're looking for, Laranna has it for you!"=Appearance: Tall, well-built, and beautiful, Laranna has dark skin and eyes which she always complements with a cacophony of bright, primary colored clothing. She is surrounded by a heady miasma of exotic spices and incense.=Roleplaying: Laranna refers to herself in the third person, and often speaks in vaguely cryptic riddles. She flirts constantly with anyone who appears receptive, regardless of gender, culture, or even species, but keeps the tone playful and mostly innocent.=Personality: In love with her wanderer heritage and image, Laranna works hard at being flamboyant and mysterious while making it appear casual and natural. She loves to be the center of attention.=Motivation: Laranna wants to show up, be admired for her phenomenal skills and looks, make a good chunk of money, and then leave.=Background: A highly skilled mechanic and craftsman, Laranna can fix anything from a diesel truck to a warp engine. She is a member of a space wanderer family and owes loyalty to no one and nothing except them. Currently a bachelorette, she is traveling the galaxy and seeing what there is to see before her mother decides it is time for her to marry and start a family of her own.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, business, crafter, merchant, mysterious =573***=Dusty Sage=Curmudgeonly Prospector="You sit there in your comfy chair and full gravity system. You don't remember what the outer rim was like in the old days. We had to sit strapped to our chairs and couldn't speak to each other-it'd waste too much oxygen. Fun times."=Appearance: Dusty is a spry old man who shows no sign of slowing down. He still wears the styles that were in vogue 30-40 years ago, when the outer rim was barely explored. While short and a little bent, Dusty has a countenance that demands respect.=Roleplaying: He considers himself to be the foremost authority on the outer rim. If respected, Dusty acts like a favorite uncle willing to impart his wisdom. If challenged, especially by someone younger, Dusty gets angry and spits off "reasons" why the challenger is wrong. =Personality: Dusty is an independent old prospector who has trouble working within regulations. He believes that the outer rim was better when it wasn't so cluttered and dominated by corporations. Dusty looks back on the old days through a pastoral filter and dismisses all of the dangers and hardships of that time.=Motivation: He is always looking for the big score for his retirement. He also wants to keep that find away from greedy corporations.=Background: Dusty was an early explorer of the outer rim. He had little support and prospecting was a dangerous business. Now that civilization has caught up, Dusty feels alienated from the new state of affairs.=Traits: (WC) Adventurer, ancient, eccentric, merchant, outdoorsman=574***=Gibson Zuse=Human Computer="Assuming optimal conditions, this plan has a 4.3% chance of success."=Appearance: A fit middle-aged man with neat hair, Gibson always appears to be reading three net-tablets simultaneously.=Roleplaying: He is alternately logical and excitable, as his emotions catch up with the instantaneous but cold logic of his mind. =Personality: Far from emotionless, he has simply learned to rein in his emotions while computing. He has also learned not to hold in his emotions for too long.=Motivation: Gibson wants to lead a somewhat normal life.=Background: Gibson's father is a genius-level genetic engineer (with a specialty in neurology) who gave his son the ability to instantly estimate and calculate nearly anything. The father was jailed for unethical research practices while Gibson was quite young, so the boy never received any real guidance in managing his "gift." Despite being raised by a string of foster parents, he was doing quite well for himself until recently. Gibson's father was released from jail and, coincidentally or not, a number of organizations have suddenly become aware of his abilities and are looking to hire or dissect him. Since his abilities do not extend to predicting the intentions of others, he has gone into hiding, making what money he can by "cheating" at gambling.=Traits: (KS) Academic, genius, impoverished, scientist=575***=Feylice Braunston=Timeless Artist="Who would have thought that solidified sonic webs would ever turn into an artistic medium? It's impressive, amazing really...but my hands know digicomposing, and I'm too old to adapt."=Appearance: Feylice is short, particularly by modern standards, and has thinned from the lush ripeness of her youth. Her hair is usually brown, and she has silver-painted fingernails and a cocked smile.=Roleplaying: She unconsciously drops arcane and ancient phrases in the middle of most sentences-some only decades old, some centuries old. The first few days after revival she's stiff and slow, but she moves easily once her body adjusts.=Personality: She is thirsty for knowledge-about the universe, the last 20 or 50 years of changes-and the people she meets. Her eyes are always on her conversational partner, and are warm rather than piercing.=Motivation: Feylice created an odd business, inventing herself as the timeless artist. Initially she was running from heartbreak, but now she's trapped in a web of expectation.=Background: Feylice markets herself as the oldest woman alive; she surfaces from suspended animation every 20 years, lives out a year, then returns to suspension. During that year she experiences daily life and creates art that comments on the current period; the proceeds compound with minimal expense during suspension, leaving her increasingly wealthy. She's beginning to realize that she's missing out on life, but the bubble of excitement and publicity prevents her from building close relations.=Traits: (SM) Ancient, artist, business, famous=576***=Ronald Powell=Diligent Worker="I know that things are tough right now, but we'll make it. It is those of us who work harder when there is no apparent hope who eventually succeed. We can get off of this moon. We can build our own ship with the parts that we have here."=Appearance: A young man with thinning hair and horn rimmed glasses, he is either in his jumpsuit or his spacesuit salvaging any parts that he can use from the dilapidated moon base.=Roleplaying: He has a habit of saying "Fair enough" in response to others who disagree with him.=Personality: He is impatient with people at times, but he takes his time with machines and technology.=Motivation: He wants to see himself and the other residents of the moon base leave and find homes on a more habitable planet.=Background: Ronald was a civilian contractor for a military operation. He and hundreds of other civilians were brought to the moon where they currently reside to help build and maintain an operational base. The underfunded military ultimately decommissioned the base, but the private corporation that brought in the contractors offered to take it over. Everything seemed to be going well until an embezzlement scandal bankrupted the corporation. Now Ronald and others have been abandoned on the moon.=Traits: (PB) Crafter, impoverished, military=577***=Dr. Jeffery Kuthar=Deceitful Elder="I am only here because here I am a god to these ground-scratchers. I showed them how to make pottery, and they named a mountain after me!" =Appearance: Jeffery is a short, thin man whose skin is very tan. His hair is short and wild, with no style to it. He wears a toga-like garment and simple sandals.=Roleplaying: A skilled lecturer, Jeffery is very dramatic with sweeping hand motions, and he often pauses as if expecting applause. =Personality: He has never had much of a conscience. Jeffery acts on his own impulses.=Motivation: Jeffery is ruled by two simple and primal needs: sloth and greed. He will do anything to get some reward or to avoid hard work.=Background: His lack of morals and considerable intellect allowed him to excel in school, often sabotaging his classmates for his gain. Jeffery obtained a Ph.D. in primitive societies, leaving a number of angry colleagues in his wake. Bored with the hard work involved in research, he took his knowledge and found a primitive society on a fringe world. He slowly assimilated into their culture, and he has doled out information to advance them as a civilization. The tribe is grateful for the information and has showered him with rewards. He works to keep the tribe from meeting any other travelers, fearful that his racket would end.=Traits: (PV) Genius, primal, scholar=578***=Madam Rosetta=Ageless Schemer="Oh my. A new law that will destroy my institution and surely end crime as we know it. Every decade someone promises this very same thing, and every decade the crime is still here. History is much more relevant when you have actually lived through it."=Appearance: She is an elderly woman dressed in simple robes, with two laser blasters slung from her hips and two plasma pistols holstered under her arms.=Roleplaying: She is carefree and constantly listens to classical music, waving her arms gently as if conducting an orchestra.=Personality: Madam Rosetta is calm and keeps her wits about her in even the most dire of emergencies.=Motivation: She has no real ambition, not because she is lazy, but because she is content. She enjoys dabbling in various forms of art, and she became a criminal because it's easier to steal than to work.=Background: Madam Rosetta was one of several passengers whose starship passed through an unusual nebula that was experiencing a dark matter storm. Somehow, the ship's jump drives were activated and the ship suffered a partial implosion, jumping several light years away. The wreckage of the ship appeared in orbit above a colonized planet and Madam Rosetta was the only person rescued from the ship. She was 19 years old at the time, and the accident happened 900 years ago. Now she ages about one year for every 20 that pass.=Traits: (PB) Ancient, criminal, dilettante=579***=Nariko Hayashi=Chatty Starship Officer="OK, Station 354, you still on? Great. So, as I was saying, the medical officer on Starbase Gamma is expecting. You hadn't heard? Isn't that the best news! And you know who the father is, right? No? Well, you'll never believe it..."=Appearance: She is a willowy figure with long fingers. She thinks the regulation uniform jumpsuit a bit drab, so she's taken to dying her hair bright, electric colors. Her favorite shades are cobalt blue and neon purple, and she usually has a lipstick to match.=Roleplaying: Nariko likes to twirl her earring when she's engrossed in a story.=Personality: She's a friendly gossip.=Motivation: She shares stories as a way to build trust in her and her ship. Invariably, her ship gets summoned because everyone knows she is ready to listen and to lend a hand.=Background: Nariko makes sure she doesn't spread harmful news or scandal. Really, she just like to talk, and in the vast, deadly quiet of outer space, her chatter is often a welcome respite from the relentless silence. She's the closest thing there is to a town crier of old. She's also quick on a keyboard, and a multitasker who can monitor a dozen red alerts while still finding a way to share grandma's recipes over the comm-net.=Traits: (TT) Charming, humorous=580***=Brother Melvin Kim=Reformed Medic="I do not wish to dwell upon my past, as I have been reborn. Please leave me to my tranquility and allow me to care for my patients."=Appearance: Melvin shaves his head and wears the uniform of a spiritual healer. His face tells a different story; Melvin has a broken nose, a jagged scar on his left cheek, and pieces of his left ear are missing. He has even more scars beneath his uniform.=Roleplaying: He is a kind caregiver, always asking questions and trying to make his patients comfortable. He prefers not to speak about his past.=Personality: Melvin was once a ruthless pirate and still has that ruthlessness buried inside him. Through prayer and meditation, Melvin suppresses that part of himself and remains calm, focused, and kind.=Motivation: He wants to atone for his past sins by helping others.=Background: Melvin was once a pirate raiding merchant vessels for his boss to sell on the black market. He'd killed many people and was destined to become a boss himself, until an incident occurred that caused Melvin to change course: He was captured and sent to a prison planet. Melvin became close with the spiritual caregivers that tended to the prisoners and eventually became one of them. While still technically a prisoner, Melvin is allowed to work at various caregiver centers as long as he remains within the scope of his employment. Melvin now cares only about aiding others.=Traits: (WC) Impoverished, medic, saintly=581***=Qandorra=Zealous Thought-Thief="At the moment of your passage, I will preserve your final thought for all time."=Appearance: Qandorra is deathly pale, with stringy gray hair and eyes the size of golf balls. Her hands are always moist, and she dresses in plain white robes.=Roleplaying: Grim and creepily focused, she becomes almost ghoulish when she steals a thought.=Personality: Qandorra is a zealot and a lunatic, dedicated to a dead religion and to the flawed notion that she can accurately transcribe someone else's final thoughts. Years of pursuing her calling have hollowed her out, leaving nothing but devotion.=Motivation: She thinks only of the edicts of the Qandorran sect, and lives only to capture the thoughts of the dying.=Background: A psychic mutant, Qandorra steals the final thoughts of the dying to preserve them for posterity. Her eyes turn completely black when she does this, and electricity arcs between her and the dying person. Qandorra (which means "preserver" in her language) carries a book with her everywhere, the Great Work, and in it she transcribes the thoughts of the dead, and her own musings and interpretations related to them. Her power is genuine (though it may appear to be a scam), as is her claim to be the last member of a religious sect dedicated to thought preservation. Qandorra won't commit murder, so she frequents places where people are likely to die, waiting for the right moment to steal their final thoughts.=Traits: (MR) Eccentric, magical, mysterious, occult, religious, zealot=582***=Sirius Defuge=Witty Hanger-On="Headache? He's got a bullet in him! Carlos, get an ambulance over here right away."=Appearance: Sirius dresses in costumes; some days as an early computer technician, other days as an Elizabethan playwright or toga-clad Greek. =Roleplaying: Sirius is always quoting, often stretching context to find something appropriate. He usually declaims in a theatrical voice, but whispers intimately.=Personality: The world is but a stage, so why not enjoy it? Sirius loves borrowing old phrases and turning them on their head, ironically counterpointing what he's driving at. He's in love with his wit, and displays it every chance he gets. While Sirius is brilliant, he knows that it's all been said before, and better.=Motivation: While his acting is terrible, it's the only world he cares about. He wants to be on every guest list, know every star.=Background: His mother attended every concert, following artists across the galaxy-and eventually had Sirius as a result. She continued touring, leaving Sirius with a nanny most of the time; he loved the rare days when she'd return home and regale him with tales of life on the road. He studied old holos and physical plays, learning lines and acquiring invitations-at first to show up his mother, later as a passion.=Traits: (SM) Dilettante, entertainment, zealot=583***=Ron Cole=Quirky Entrepreneur="Everyone told me that in today's age of genetic vanity plants, no one would want to do yard work. Everyone said no one wants real grass when synthetic grass only has to be paid for once and never maintained. That was 2412. Now 30 years later my company is still the leader in relaxation lawn care products. You want to melt your stress away after a rough four hour workday? You come home and mow the lawn. Your Cole Organics lawn, that is!"=Appearance: A deeply tanned man with a bald spot, he is handsome and broad shouldered. He is never out of arms reach of one of his amazing products.=Roleplaying: Slightly arrogant, he is actually a real people person. He shakes a person's hand firmly upon meeting and asks lots of questions like "Where are you from?" and "You got a family?" He is genuinely interested in the answers.=Personality: Ron is confident and proud of his business, of his products, and of his staff.=Motivation: He will run the greatest relaxation lawn care products company in the galaxy!=Background: Slaving away as an executive, Ron looked for ways to deal with the stress of a 20-hour work week. He discovered that in ancient times, people planted grass and trimmed it regularly in order to feel a sense of euphoria. He tried it himself, and it worked! And thus Ron Cole invented the relaxation lawn care business.=Traits: (PB) Business, crafter, genius, humorous=584***=Fatima Bayata=Spiritual Child="Be not afraid. The spirits will guide and protect us."=Appearance: A calm-looking girl with long braided hair who smiles confidently at people, as if she knows all about them.=Roleplaying: Regardless of the situation, she remains relaxed and calm, and implies that she knows what will happen next.=Personality: She is convinced that the spirits inform and lead her, and will accept no argument to the contrary. Aside from this conviction, she is intelligent, kind, and hard-working.=Motivation: She lives to do the spirits' will.=Background:  From a very early age, Fatima had a sense that she could commune with spirits and managed to make some accurate predictions that backed up her belief. Since then, she has been revered, feared, and eventually hated for events that she had no control over. Recently, the spirits told her to leave the village and seek out certain people in a nearby city in order to protect the village from a catastrophe. She has stayed in the city, awaiting the "chosen people" who will save the villagers. Whether or not she does speak to the spirits, or interprets her prescience through her village's spiritual context, or is just the subject of some serious coincidence and self-delusion, remains to be seen.=Traits: (KS) Child, focal, impoverished, mysterious, outdoorsman, religious=