In Retirement*For centuries, a line of monster hunters protected the local area from predatory monsters. Unfortunately, the newest member of the family has given up monster hunting. Once held at bay, the predators are now beginning to realize that hunters no longer protect the area. Only the former protector knows how to vanquish these predators for good. Can the PCs convince the hunter to return to his duty?*It's up to you to determine the nature of the threat. The predators could be aggressive spirits, vampires, werewolves, or supernatural animals. For whatever reason, they're immune to the PCs' usual arsenal, although the PCs should be able to slow them down long enough to escape.*Similarly, you need to determine the nature of the hunter. Is she from a long line of religious leaders, police officers, or park rangers, or was it simply a duty on the side? Was the hunter aware of her heritage and, if so, did she embrace it? What caused her to retire? What prevents her from returning? Is imparting knowledge to the PCs enough or must they get her to don the mantle again?*This scenario helps inject a bit of horror into a typical "PCs are seasoned monster hunters" campaign. Perhaps the PCs think they know what they're up against, only to experience surprise at something that they've never encountered before (such as a new type of vampire, infernal snakes, or regenerating werewolves). Some research reveals that such creatures have been defeated in the past and offers clues about someone that can help. Hopefully the PCs can reach her in time and convince her to help them.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, combat-heavy, monster, sandbox, spirit, tactical planning==Mission aboard Deep Sea Lab 1*The government or a private investor has brought in the PCs to assist a brilliant scientist so reclusive that most people think he's dead. The scientist has been working on the development of a special undersea lab durable enough to withstand the pressures of the greatest depths and provisioned to support its occupants for two months.*Although the mission includes a cadre of security specialists, technicians, oceanographers, biologists, geologists, and others with disciplines suited to deep ocean exploration, the employer wants the PCs to act as independent observers during the mission.*What happens next doesn't alarm the chief scientist, even though it probably should. Early on, the scientists detect something monstrous, unclassified, and threatening in the waters outside the lab. The station loses communication with the topside base. One of the scientists strangles another. The exploratory mini-sub suffers a mechanical malfunction, requiring a rescue. Lastly, someone sabotages the lab's nuclear reactor.*At some point, the PCs should develop an alliance with at least one NPC technician who can aid them and who's capable of asserting her independence with the chief scientist. Likewise, there is at least one other NPC technician who looks to betray the PCs and remains devoted to the chief scientist no matter what happens.*Over time, the chief scientist makes decisions that are increasingly life-threatening for everyone aboard the undersea lab. The scientist grows increasingly obsessed with the creature outside, and, in his speech and mannerisms, he gives clues that he has started to identify with the monster. He voices insights about it that couldn't possibly have come from scientific observations.*The creature outside is telepathically controlling the chief scientist, and the scientist is slowly losing his sanity as a result. Ultimately, he makes a decision that dooms the lab and allows the powerful creature to enter. It's up to the PCs to trap the creature and then kill it or return it to the sea. The chief scientist uses any means available, including the lab's computer controls, to kill everyone aboard the station. The station's diving pool, where submersibles enter the depths, should serve as the location of the final confrontation with the scientist and the sea monster.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) alliance, betrayal, dungeon crawl, innocent, isolated area, madness, monster==Paranoia*In a major city, a series of brutal murders occurs every three nights. The first murder was followed, three days later, by another three murders. Those murders were followed, three days later, by nine more murders. It's the first night of the cycle, and the city's residents are panicking as they expect 27 more murders to take place in two days' time.*The fiends behind these murders are members of a race of demons that have been summoned to prey upon the living. A demon was called up by a gifted but inexperienced necromancer. The first murder was the necromancer's rival. What the necromancer didn't know was that the demon would spawn after finishing the bloody deed. Whenever a demon kills a living person it spawns two more demons. All of the demons then continue to hunt down new victims.*Victims of the demons aren't chosen at random. Immediately after being spawned or after taking a life, the demons need a pact to stay on this plane of reality. They have one hour to find a person willing to give them the name of their next victim. The demons use trickery and threats of violence to solicit a name, but despite their threats they can only harm the person who they are contracted to kill.*The PCs need only be in the city when the murders occur to become embroiled in the plot. Perhaps they witness one of the demons committing a murder, or an associate of the PCs could be a murder victim. Maybe one of the PCs is named as a future victim, and then warned by the guilt-stricken person who offered their name.*This is an unconventional plot, but the encounters are simple: Every third night demons attack and kill people. The only way to stop the killing is either to discover the name of the necromancer and give it to one of the demons, which breaks the original pact and sends all of the demons back to their realm, or to convince everyone in the city not to give in to the demons' demands for new names. A demon can be destroyed using the appropriate holy items, but even then the battle will be a tough one.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) betrayal, city, combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, magic, monster, relationship hook, religion, rivalry, social, villain==A Fair Ruling*A rural town holds a planting festival every spring.  Unbeknownst to most townsfolk, during the festival a secret cabal summons a nature spirit and asks for a bountiful harvest, offering in return a sacrifice of its choice. The spirit generally asks for a sacrifice proportional to the amount of help the crops will need during the growing season. Minor sacrifices or services might include the first plant to bloom in each field or the induction of a new acolyte; major sacrifices could include the burning of a building to return the land on which it's built to arability-or the taking of a human life. This year, the cabal must provide the bodies of people who have been ritualistically murdered. The PCs are in town visiting relatives or friends, or are just passing through, and the spirit asks for outsiders.*After the first murder, most townspeople are scared but have no useful information. Those who know about the spirit are reluctant to let anyone else in on the secret, but are less disturbed by the event and try to downplay it. Questioning the old-timers might reveal that it isn't the first time someone has been murdered immediately after the planting festival.*If they search the newspapers and archives in the library and town hall, the PCs turn up numerous records of murders and disappearances at this time of year. There are also stories of weird lights, missing animals, and other types of disturbances. Astute PCs may notice that dark events match up to lean farming years, and that the last record of poor harvests is almost a century ago.*Most of the year, the spirit exists outside of our plane, but from the time it's summoned until it receives its sacrifices, it manifests physically. One of the lead cultists is keeping it locked in his barn. In its physical form it resembles a great quadrupedal beast made of kudzu and covered with hundreds of tiny white blossoms, each of which drips blood. Its legs are made of roots tightly entwined around the shattered and decaying remains of humans and their farm implements. While the spirit is highly resistant to physical damage, defoliants and fire are effective weapons against it. If it is destroyed, it revokes its blessing and never returns.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) innocent, investigative, isolated area, politics, relationship hook, social, spirit, villain*Deliverance==Broken Toys*A child is abused by her parents and seeks refuge in her   own imaginary world. In her world, she is protected from all harm by her stuffed toy animal. One day, her parents destroyed the toy as a punishment, and the child's intense emotional pain caused a psychic rift that bridged her imagined world with the real world.*From this rift, a hideous form of the toy emerged with the savage qualities of the animal it was modeled after. It slaughtered the child's parents and caused the child to go into shock. The child is now a vagabond roaming the streets. When she feels threatened, whether the threat is real or not, the savage monster appears and destroys the threat.*The PCs witness the monster killing someone and chase after the child, either out of concern or suspicion. If the PCs try to force the child to go anywhere, the monster reappears immediately and attacks the PCs. If they gently convince the girl to come with them to a police station, hospital or other appropriate authority, they learn about the murder of the girl's parents. Soon, however, the girl becomes nervous and the monster appears once again. Upon investigating the site of the parents' murders, the PCs find a journal that reveals the abuse that was occurring, and how the child created the imaginary world.*A final encounter is centered on the savage monster breaking free of the child's limited control. The monster might be a demon that is merely using the child's suffering to step into this world, or it could be working towards killing the child herself in order to permanently enter our world. Researching monsters of myth and legend should provide clues as to what the monster is and how it can be defeated. Perhaps giving the child a copy of the beloved toy will help seal the rift, or the PCs may need to use a ritual to break the bond between the child and the monster.*Have the monster appear frequently and rack up a body count with each appearance. Amp up the tension by making sure that the PCs fear the reappearance of the monster.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) alliance, city, escort mission, innocent, investigative, magic, mature themes, monster, roleplaying-heavy, social==Storm Front*The sensational story of a series of ritualistic slayings that have just been solved by the police is plastered on the front page of every newspaper in the city. The killer confessed to the slayings, claiming he executed and mutilated his victims to summon some sort of storm deity. Within a week, a constant, cold, driving rain has settled over the city, stressing the local economy, darkening people's attitudes, and spawning the fear that maybe something is coming after all.*To help resolve the situation, the PCs first need to know more about the methods the killer used. Since the case against him is still in progress, they'll have to convince the police to sneak them a peek of the case file, break into the police station, or hack their computer system.*After viewing the case file, the PCs know that the killer used rituals from a certain occult tome. They can probably find a copy with some legwork or by calling in favors, but the book is obtuse and requires more time than they have to translate. Later on, one of those contacts calls and asks if they're having any luck, because he's found someone who has a translated copy.*The person with the translated copy is someone the PCs have foiled before. The PCs have to convince him to not only let them use the book, but to help them with the binding ritual required to force the storm deity back from whence it came, since the ritual requires the participation of someone experienced in the rites of the storm deity.*Performing the ritual requires the casters to gather on the highest point available, so they must break into a skyscraper and make their way to the roof without being caught. Once there, the ritual attracts the attention of the storm deity's cloud drake minions, man-sized draconic spirits made of water vapor. They reform almost as fast as they're destroyed, but must be kept at bay till the ritual is completed.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, city, deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, relationship hook, shady, siege, social, spirit, stealth==And Then There Were None...*The PCs stumble upon a strange gathering of about a dozen elderly people and a half-dozen nurses and assistants camped far from civilization. The old-timers are friendly and are excited to be "at the family reunion." They ask the PCs to join them. One of the younger campers is a thirty-something woman, also a member of the family, who occasionally looks distracted or preoccupied. She will quietly try to warn the PCs not to stay.*As the sun sets, a bonfire is lit, drinks and such are shared, and the anticipation builds. Excitement turns to fear when the clan patriarch is found in the bushes, strangled to death with his oxygen hose. Almost immediately, more murders occur. The group keeps close together.*Every 666 months, the family meets here to renew a pact with a devil. At midnight on the night of the full moon, the Devil shows up, one of the clan and a number of others are sacrificed, and the remaining members get to be young again. The young woman has uncovered the pact and learned that she is the sacrifice. So tonight she's killing off her relatives one by one. She has had years to prepare, has a number of tricks up her sleeve (and buried around the campsite), and plans to end this pact no matter the cost. She doesn't use guns because they attract attention. Her plan is to kill off all her relatives before taking her own life.*She starts by murdering the man who started it all. She will next try to target the younger and more capable campers, but will try to drive off the PCs instead of killing them, as they are truly innocent. If the PCs can figure out what's going on, they may be able to help her, but she isn't very trusting. The old-timers will let more and more hints slip as the situation becomes increasingly desperate.*If the young woman is thwarted in her mission before midnight, she will surrender and join their "initiation." But at 11:59, a bomb will go off underneath the place where she's chained, killing her and more of the family. Of course, that's when the Devil arrives and demands his sacrifice from the few who remain.*Make the old-timers so happy that they're creepy. The PCs can try to defend them from "whatever's out there," or can try to figure out the root cause. Either way, it's going to get ugly before it ends.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (KS) alliance, deadline, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, magic, social, twist==Killing with Kindness*A small, isolated community houses a coven that has made   a pact with a demon, gaining power in return for the occasional human sacrifice. They usually choose by lottery from among the non-coven members, but unexpected visitors provide an opportunity to take a sacrifice without losing a member of the community. The PCs unwittingly fulfill this role by appearing in town just before the night of the sacrifice. Isolated and alone, the PCs must counter or defeat the demon and thereby rescue the rest of the community from future sacrifices.*This scenario works best with traveling PCs. The PCs could be on vacation and become lost or get off-course at some point; perhaps the coven has arranged a trap, using spells that kill cell phone or GPS signals, change water currents, or damage car engines. You might even slip this scenario in while the PCs are dealing with a different adventure.*In any case, the PCs are stuck in the community with no immediate way home. Their vehicle is towed to a garage and can be fixed "within a day, two at most." Everyone in the community seems extremely hospitable, perhaps overly so. If the PCs are persistent in trying to leave, coincidences and natural phenomena interfere: an attractive local seduces a PC, a bad storm is rolling in, or one of the PCs breaks an ankle. You should be careful not to make these incidents feel like railroading, although it's just fine if the PCs start to feel like something is working against them.*How this scenario continues depends on the demon's reach and on what powers it offers the coven. If immortality is included, the PCs might catch anachronistic cues. Perhaps the town looks like it was lifted from the 1930s, the locals use 1950s slang and fashion, the newest car in town is from 1972, and the mechanic seems in awe of the PCs' vehicle. Non-coven residents may want to help the PCs escape-so exactly what is holding them back? Is there an area in or around town that the PCs aren't allowed to go?*All of this leads to the climax, in which the coven captures the PCs and drags them to the ritual site.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) isolated area, monster, villain*Crime Pursued by Vengeance==Keeping It in the Family*A friend in the coroner's office or police department asks  the PCs to consult on a murder case. Though the body in the morgue looks human, the autopsy has revealed a decidedly inhuman physiology. The police have investigated as far as they can, but they're hoping the PCs will be able to provide them with additional insight into the murder. All they currently have to go on is a murder scene, a deformed body with multiple stab wounds, and the testimony of a deeply disturbed witness.*The witness is the victim's girlfriend. She claims that she came to visit her boyfriend, let herself in, and found two naked men stabbing her boyfriend and yelling in a foreign language. She started screaming and the men fled towards the river. She's certain that the men have been skulking around her house. If the PCs stake out her house, the men-who are actually not human at all, but humanoid amphibians-show up after dark and attempt to break in and kidnap the woman. If the PCs don't stake out her place, she'll disappear.*A call alerts the PCs that the morgue has been broken into and the corpse is missing. The PCs join the hunt for the body, and they find two square-shouldered men in dripping coats dragging a body; they're headed in the general direction of the river. When they realize they've been discovered, the pair will split up. One tries to slow down the PCs and the other shoulders the corpse, trying to escape to the river. Both are very strong and fast, but the runner is carrying a heavy burden.*The men continue trying to steal the corpse and related documentation, and they try to kill anyone involved in the case, including the PCs. The men will try to gang up on a single target when possible.*Staking out the river, which the men use for transportation, the PCs discover they have a hidden burrow under the river itself. Inside its maze of partially submerged caverns connected by water-filled tunnels, they find living spaces and (if they were captured) the girlfriend and the corpse. With nowhere left to flee, the men fight to the death if they are attacked or if they discover the PCs in their lair.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, monster, race, relationship hook, villain==Hush*Months ago, a woman was savagely raped behind the  theater where she worked as a burlesque dancer (or stripper, depending upon the era of your game). Although the townspeople heard her cries for help, due to a combination of fear and disgust at how the dancer made her living they did nothing to aid her.*The dancer was beaten so badly that she could no longer dance, and her beautiful face was scarred and broken. She was fired, thrown out of her home, and left penniless. With nothing left to her but pain and suffering, she hanged herself in the town square. A suicide note was found on the body. It read, "I curse the people of this town such that when they cry for help, no one will hear them."*The months following her suicide have been marked by a series of strange deaths. A person will be crushed or savagely beaten in seclusion, yet despite potential witnesses being within earshot no one hears the attack. Innocent people have been arrested and convicted as murderers. Their defense-that they heard nothing-is often disregarded at trial.*The ghost of the dancer now roams the town, seeking her revenge. No sound can be made in her presence and she will flee with a shriek if another person sees her. The PCs may be asked to investigate the strange homicides in this town, or to aid a friend who is on trial for a murder committed by the ghost. Many people remember the circumstances surrounding the dancer's death, but few are willing to talk about it. At least once during the adventure, the ghost appears and attacks a lone PC.*The climax of this plot occurs when the PCs discover and deliver the rapists to the ghost so that she may have her revenge. For an interesting twist, have the PCs attacked by townspeople that they thought they could trust, only to learn that these people are the ones who attacked the dancer.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) city, difficult choice, investigative, magic, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==Take No Prisoners*A monster hunter has come to town. While her cause is  legitimate, she's ruthless in her methods. Sometimes innocents have to be sacrificed for the greater good, and she doesn't separate the wheat from the chaff: "Good" monsters are fair game to her. It soon becomes apparent that the cure is worse than the disease and the monster hunter must be stopped before she causes more harm.*This scenario works well if there's a monster PC in the group or if the group has a monster ally or acquaintance. The hunter soon threatens this monster. Alternatively, the PCs may initially welcome the hunter's help (or at least turn a blind eye) until the hunter raises the stakes too high.*The scenario starts with the monster hunter's grand entrance: She kills a monster in spectacular and brutally efficient fashion. It's important at this stage that the monster hunter doesn't show her true colors; she harms no innocents and the monster targeted was performing an evil act. The PCs themselves might have been gearing up to deal with the threat, only to have the hunter upstage them at the last moment.*As the adventure progresses, the monster hunter becomes more dangerous. Perhaps she coaxes innocents into potentially lethal situations as bait, or maybe she has agitated local creatures, causing monsters to attack more often and with greater ferocity. Perhaps she injures a victim or sets her sights on a "good" monster.*Once the PCs turn on the hunter, of course, she believes that evil influences them. She may try to convince them of their error at first, but she won't hesitate to harm or kill them if they get in her way. The PCs may have to ally with a monstrous former foe to take care of this new threat.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) innocent, monster, twist, villain==The Flower Pot Case*Some time ago, five influential members of the city council conspired with a real estate developer to claim a residential district using the city's eminent domain authority. The plan to bulldoze the neighborhood and erect a three-story, ultramodern shopping district moved forward in spite of the human cost; there were repeated scenes of families being pulled from their homes by law enforcement while bulldozers thrummed nearby. Development continued as an appeal traveled to the highest level of the courts. The elicited sympathy wasn't enough to quell the plot.*Almost forgotten among the evictees was a quiet man, a gardener whose wondrous front-yard garden was plowed under. No one ever heard from the man again, but he has returned to seek his revenge. A string of horrible deaths rocks the new shopping center. Shopkeepers in the new mall are found strangled by vines, a councilman is found stung to death by killer bees, and an official known for taking bribes was stabbed to death and pinned to a wall with several pairs of gardening shears. Before long, the lead contractor's decomposed body was found in a mulch pile, and a building inspector turned up dead after taking a bite from a poisoned tomato. The district's developer discovered his trophy wife hideously transformed after an allergic reaction to exotic pollen.*During their investigation, the PCs find a newspaper clipping that shows the neighborhood before it met the plow of a bulldozer. The gardener's beautiful front yard is unmistakably the most prominent feature in the photo.*When the party looks for the gardener, they learn he enrolled in chemistry and biology classes at the local university. One of his professors remembers the gardener as a man obsessed with the idea that plant life could be infused with an animal-like nervous system. The professor recalls the gardener had a friendship with a hulking fellow studying botany.*Tracking the hulking student to his apartment, the PCs come upon a terrible sight. He has been transformed into a monstrous, tentacled man-plant whose trunk is permanently fused to a pot. This creature lashes out and attacks anyone who gets close. It's impossible to communicate normally with the transformed botanist.*Searching the man-plant's apartment uncovers a map of the city. A single location is marked on the map. Following the map leads to an abandoned greenhouse outside of town. Here the gardener has set up a number of traps to protect his laboratory, where he is growing massive, hideous plant monsters.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) artificial life form, city, investigative, madness, monster, politics, social, twist, villain*Vengeance Taken for Kindred upon Kindred==Mommy Dearest*Several generations ago, a powerful cult priestess was  betrayed and brutally murdered by her son, who desired to use her cult for personal gain. The next day during services, she arose as a zombie and sacrificed him before their shocked followers, causing them to flee in fear and never return.*The mother's spirit still haunted the abandoned compound when one of her son's many illegitimate children came searching for answers about her father. Able to possess the body of her descendant, the priestess has begun rebuilding her flock, starting by culling her bloodline of the non-faithful.*The PCs are hired to look into the disappearance of a young woman and her children, which is part of a larger case involving disappearances and murders. Investigating the victims, the PCs come across an old photograph in a newspaper. The victim is just a little girl, and standing next to her are the pregnant mothers of several other victims. Any of the women in the photograph can tell the PCs that the photo was taken at the site of the headquarters of a religion to which they all used to belong.*The compound has fallen into serious disrepair and is overgrown with weeds. There are fresh tracks in the softer ground. As the PCs explore, they're harassed by shadowy dog-like spirits. After dealing with the spirits, a search reveals a hidden trap door leading into an old sub-basement.*Beneath the compound the PCs discover a dank subterranean area lit by torches. There they find the abductees and the possessed woman. The priestess will first attempt to recruit the PCs to the cult, only resorting to violence as a last resort. She can inhabit any of the abductees, and may hop between them or pretend to be banished only to strike from behind.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MN) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, isolated area, madness, spirit, twist, villain==Forget Me Not*For this plot to work, you'll need to find a connection between an organization and one or all of the PCs. Professional organizations work best, but academic institutions, social clubs, and other groups will work as well. This organization will be referred to henceforth as "the agency."*A former member of the agency has gone rogue. This traitor turned against the agency because he believed it wasn't aggressive enough in its pursuits, and that this resulted in the death of his partner and lover. The traitor turned to the occult and learned black magic; he can now summon spirits to do his bidding, though it costs him a measure of his sanity. His madness makes him believe that the agency should be destroyed and that all of its members must be killed.*The traitor's spell requires a personal item that the target feels strongly about and a personal item that's just as meaningful to the caster. This item could be a childhood toy, a gift from a departed loved one, a reminder of a tragic mistake that the target made, or a similar type of memento. For the traitor, the item is something associated with his departed lover. The traitor summons a spirit which consumes the items.*The spirit then takes on a hideous, nightmarish form similar to the object taken from the target. When the spirit attacks the target, it inflicts physical harm while also mounting a horrifying mental assault that preys upon the memories generated by the item. If the spirit kills the target or is vanquished, it dissipates and the item associated with the departed lover falls to the ground.*The PCs learn of fallen comrades who have died from the traitor's spell. This leads into a scene where a comrade is attacked in front of the PCs. The traitor then murders an NPC to gain access to the PCs' dwellings or workplaces. If successful, the traitor will cast the spell against the PCs and the spirit will appear before them.*Repeat these encounters (spirits attacking comrades, attempts to steal personal items from a PC, spirits attacking PCs) until the PCs solve the mystery of who is targeting them.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) alliance, betrayal, city, intrigue, investigative, magic, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==Family Business*The PCs are part of a geologic survey that must explore a rugged, mountainous region, and their patron agency has contracted two brothers to act as backcountry guides. The tension between the brothers is immediately evident, although they refuse to talk about it. Subtle inquiries to the younger brother reveal that the eldest is in mourning. His wife was a passenger in a car that crashed while the younger brother was driving, and she died in the accident.*The expedition takes a dark turn once it moves deep into the wilds. Far from civilization, the younger brother snaps. He and his brother get into a scuffle that ends with the younger fleeing from camp. After one night alone, he decides to exact vengeance on his older brother. He coats himself in mud and natural camouflage and begins hunting his brother and the party.*He fully intends to kill his brother, and he subjects the expedition to traps and snares and drives wild predators towards them. Caught between the harrier and the party, the animals attack the party out of desperation. At one point, the younger brother draws a den of bears to the expedition campsite by smearing honey on his brother's tent.*Intrigued by the man-hunter and the slain bears, a pack of wolves begins to trail the expedition. For several nights, the baying of the pack surrounds the campsite. One day, the older brother has had enough of the younger's "shenanigans," and sets up a number of traps meant to ensnare him. That night, the younger brother comes into camp and attempts to destroy the party's cell phones and other communication devices, intending to strand them in the mountains. A chase ensues, with the younger brother trying to lead the older brother into a previously set trap while the older brother tries to do the same.*Both brothers and the party fall prey to each other's traps, which are in the same ravine some 30 feet apart. The party and the older brother get stuck in a particularly deep sinkhole trap. The younger brother can't move, because the steel-toothed animal trap set by his brother snapped his leg in two. The wolves, scenting blood, are drawing nearer.*In the pit, the truth should come out. The real tragedy on that night of the accident was that the younger brother had come to rescue his sister-in-law from a domestic dispute. As they fled, the older brother pursued them, which is why the younger brother drove recklessly and crashed. They both blame each other for her demise.*Teamwork is the only method out of the pit before the wolves arrive and devour the younger brother. The pit is too slick and unstable to climb, but the older brother has a length of rope. If they can find a way to toss it the 30 feet they need to reach the other trap, the younger brother could tie it off in his pit, giving them a way out. The party needs to convince the wounded and angry younger brother to help them, or tragedy will strike again.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (TT) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, escort mission, intrigue, isolated area, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, social, travel==Sins of the Forefathers*Long ago, during World War II, a small band of five soldiers  used and murdered an innocent young Italian woman. As fate would have it, their direct descendants have inadvertently gathered in one place. This has caused an anguished crack in reality that allows an undead version of the woman to arise and take vengeance. The descendants are innocent victims and are unaware of their ancestors' crime.*The descendants have all enrolled in the same college. During a party, one of them picks up an attractive woman that doesn't seem to go to the college; witnesses don't remember her speaking, at least not in English. She made her intentions known through body language. The next morning, his roommate finds the descendant hanged in his dorm room.*Later, a second descendant, a young lady, is seen trying to help a frantic woman on the street; the woman is speaking rapidly in Italian. Without warning, the woman strikes the descendant across the throat and runs away as the descendant bleeds to death with her throat torn open.*You can introduce clues with these deaths as well as subsequent ones. Perhaps one of the victims kept a medal from their forefather in their dorm room or wrote a paper on the subject, or maybe one of the original criminals is still alive in a rest home. In any case, the PCs have to work fast before three more innocent victims fall to the undead woman.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) innocent, investigative, monster, villain*Pursuit==Blood Trails*Unbeknownst to most of mankind, a society of vampires lives among us in the mortal world. They're bound by a code to never leave any witnesses to their feedings and to never leave their prey alive. A rebel vampire is deliberately breaking the code in order to bring about chaos and panic. Consequently, a team of vampires is tracking the rebel and disposing of all witnesses or newly created vampires that they find along the way.*Hooks for this plot can include the PCs witnessing a vampire attack or being asked to investigate a murder committed by the trackers. Alternately, one of the PCs' associates may have witnessed a vampire attack and need protection from the trackers.*The PCs arrive on the scene of a murder in time to see the rebel attacking another person, or the trackers attempting to dispose of a witness. This leads to an encounter with some of the trackers. The trackers are savage but can be defeated by traditional means (fire, sunlight, wooden stake through the heart, decapitation, etc.). The trackers seek to eliminate witnesses but won't fight to the death if the tide turns against them.*Then, in a very public place, the PCs see the rebel feeding off of normal people with no regard for who observes him; he's also unconcerned with the rioting that his feeding provokes. To make matters worse, the victims who aren't killed by the rebel's feeding are turning into vampires, albeit with limited abilities. The newly turned vampires immediately erupt into a feeding frenzy, though fortunately their victims can't become vampires as well. The rebel won't risk being destroyed by the PCs, and will abandon the newly turned vampires without regret if things turn against him.*The final encounter should bring the trackers, the rebel, the rebel's newly turned vampire slaves, and the PCs together for a fierce battle. By this point the PCs should have a method for dealing with the hordes of vampires. There may also be assistance from local police or other organizations.*Keep the encounters in this adventure bloody and fast-paced. The vampires are ruthless killers with no sense of mercy for anyone.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) city, epic impact, investigative, monster, rebellion, social, tactical planning==All-Day Pass*It was too good to be true. Each of the PCs received a free all-day pass and $50 in free "gold coins" to the world's largest dungeon-themed amusement park. The park is modeled after a popular fantasy-themed massively multiplayer online game. What starts out as a fun day in the park, however, quickly turns into a fight for survival.*A handful of park workers dressed as barbarians, knights, and witches stalk the PCs through the park. Somehow, these costumed stalkers have all the powers of their in-game counterparts, and they have it out for the PCs. Moreover, the other park-goers seem oblivious to the threat the game's characters represent.*The turmoil begins when the stalkers, enacting a "street play," break from the script and turn their deadly magic and all-too-real weaponry on the people watching nearby. When the PCs strike a killing blow against an assailant, it simply disappears.*The drama continues as a street jester selling lemon shake-ups from a cart begins tossing the treats at the party. Each one that hits explodes in icy shards and causes the ground to rumble. Amazon warriors with spears attack the riverboat ride into the "jungle." A dark wizard animates water elementals from all the park's fountains.*There is no escape. Every time the PCs make a try for an exit, the game's iconic heroes-come-to-life appear before them and attack. When the combat ends, the party finds itself transported to the courtyard in front of the park's famous Ferris wheel. Furthermore, as the day goes on the game's characters become more formidable.*The only weapons available are foam versions of the game's famous arsenal, sold in souvenir shops. Strangely, when they're used against the game's characters, the weapons behave like their real-life counterparts. The same goes for souvenir magic scrolls and similar items. The PCs can pay for these things with the gold coin tokens that are used as money in the park, but once the PCs' money has been spent, no other form of payment will work.*If the PCs manage to survive the day-and a harrowing final battle on the Ferris wheel-the exits all open and the PCs find they are able to leave. At the end, they'll ask themselves, "Was it real, or was it all digital?"*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) investigative, isolated area, magic, monster, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==When You Wish*A friend or client of the PCs has been having a recurring nightmare in which a bright star hangs in the night sky outside her house. Though distant, its heat burns her skin. Each night for weeks the dream has repeated with the star closer and larger in the sky. Now large enough to crush the building, its heat causes blisters, makes her hair smolder, and jolts her awake soaked with sweat and gasping for breath. Medical science hasn't helped. She's convinced that something horrible is coming for her.*Investigating the house reveals a previously unnoticed light behind the boards of a basement wall. When the boards are removed, a small dusty room containing a magic circle, an old book, and a lit candle with a fist-sized flame is revealed. If extinguished, the candle will smolder for a moment, then spring back to life.*The book, written in Greek with scribbled notes in English, contains blasphemous astrology and spells to contact, speak with, and summon fire spirits from the stars. The summoning spell requires a candle made from the fat of a hanged man that will thereafter draw its heat from the core of his soul. The scrawled notes indicate the summoner intended to use the spirit to take revenge, but upon whom and for what reason remains a mystery.*Invoking the fire spirit will create the sensation of floating in space near a gigantic sphere of flame, the near side blisteringly hot, the far side deadly cold and able to cause burns and frostbite over long periods. The spirit is slow of speech but not disagreeable. It is responding to a summoning. While it would be happy to ignore the summoning, it must obey until the candle is extinguished with pure elemental air.*Elemental air can be harvested from storm spirits. These powerful beings won't give their essence freely. It must be stolen with special spells or tools. When the candle is subjected to elemental air, the flame explodes in a shower of sparks, igniting any nearby flammables. The PCs must extinguish the flames or escape before the fire consumes them.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) deadline, innocent, investigative, relationship hook, spirit==Hunter and Hunted*The PCs come across a horrific murder scene, only to find themselves accused of being the killers. The party must now confront the horror while avoiding the local authorities. This scenario dovetails nicely with other plots, acting as an extra complication.*This plot works best if there is a reason for the PCs to stick around rather than simply fleeing the area. This could be natural (a blizzard that keeps them within the confines of a small mountainside town), forceful (the National Guard has the area cordoned off with a "shoot first" policy), or personal (the only way to clear the PCs' names is to uncover the horror).*There must also be a reason that the PCs are accused beyond simply stumbling across the crime scene. Perhaps they were acquainted with the victims or were carrying items that resemble the murder weapons. Particularly insidious horrors may have taken the PCs' forms when committing the act or compelled the PCs to do it through mind control. Perhaps the victims themselves were horrors, reverting to their human forms when killed, and a hiker happened by to see the PCs hacking these "innocents" to death and reported them to the police.*In any event, the PCs must confront the horror while attempting to clear their names. In campaigns where instant communication doesn't exist, the PCs may conclude that the best way to clear their names is to eliminate the witnesses and/or local authorities, a truly horrific prospect. In games where the PCs are suspects on the Internet, they have to find credible, tangible evidence to exonerate themselves.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) investigative, monster, race, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, stealth*Disaster==Six Days, Seven Nights, and 1,000 Zombies*A tropical island is being developed into a high-class  vacation resort spot. The first hotel has recently opened and it has attracted both high rollers and common tourists. The resort is tailored to the single adult lifestyle, and the island was chosen because of the governing nation's lax laws regarding drugs and other substances.*The island's native population protests the expansion of the resort, and they warn that no one must disturb the ancient sculpture facing the seashore. Legend says that the sculpture is a totem that prevents the devil of the seas from destroying the island.*In terms of plot hooks, it probably won't take much to get the PCs onto a tropical island full of scantily clad people drinking large amounts of liquor and indulging in their carnal desires.*The first encounter should be a minor scuffle with some drunken guests who want to show off by pushing the PCs around. Use this scene to establish the culture of the resort-the haves are better than the have-nots, and the beautiful people are second only to the rich people.*Eventually some of these drunken fools will vandalize the sculpture. This can be another encounter or the PCs can simply witness the vandalism from a distance. Once the sculpture has been vandalized, the sky darkens, the sea turns murky,    and waves crash violently against the island.*Any living being on the island is now a meal waiting to be consumed by the devil of the sea. Anyone at sea on a ship is attacked by giant sharks and octopi; even dolphins throw themselves at the vessels to try to knock people into the water. Planes and helicopters crash into the ocean. A helicopter plummets right into an outdoor nightclub where hundreds of terrified tourists are gathered.*After this initial mayhem, the true terror appears. Horrifying zombie sailors from many different eras begin to crawl out of the ocean and attack everyone in sight. The zombies feast upon the flesh of their victims, which of course creates more zombies.*Eventually the hotel's ground floor will be overrun with the undead, and the PCs will need to fight their way up to the penthouse suite. In a dark and deadly one-shot, that may be the end of the adventure; in an ongoing campaign, a helicopter too powerful to be pulled into the ocean may be in the area and able to rescue the party.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) epic challenge, epic impact, isolated area, magic, monster, spirit, travel==Tidal Terror*A hurricane or tsunami has flooded a coastal town.  Unfortunately, it has also brought a deep-sea monster with it. While rescue workers struggle to save stranded citizens, the monster enjoys its new feeding ground.*In an age of instant communication, stranded victims should be able to relay their position and current conditions to the rescuers and the PCs. This allows the rescuers to prioritize their rescue attempts. Alternatively, the PCs may be among the stranded and have to deal with some basic survival considerations before the true horror reveals itself.*The monster's presence should be subtle at first. Perhaps the rescuers get to a "low-risk" rescue and discover that the survivors are gone, leaving strange clues behind: seaweed not native to the area draped over a window opening, the cell phone used to call the rescuers floating nearby, or shredded clothes.*Next, a rescuer's boat is attacked without warning. One of the rescuers is able to radio that there's a problem just before cutting out: "We're coming around the convenience store, no sign of the owners so far. Wait, what's that? Oh, G-." Again, the boat is found idling with no one on board.*Eventually, the PCs learn the true nature of the menace. Is it a deep-sea monster, a supernatural beast, or something truly alien? And how can they stop it before it claims more victims?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) innocent, investigative, isolated area, monster==Red Masque*The PCs are called in to help investigate the theft of a chained and locked box from the archives of a local museum. The thief's trail leads to a tenement apartment where the box is found open; inside is a white porcelain theater mask with small drops of blood painted around the eyes and mouth. The thief is dead in his room, his lungs full of blood and his eyes dissolved in their sockets. He's the first victim of a mysterious and deadly disease that is quickly spreading through the tenement. Forensics experts believe that the disease had been dormant for some time, but became virulent again when the box was opened.*The disease spreads quickly and is resistant to medicine, but healthy living will allow the afflicted to survive for a few months instead of a few days. Symptoms include lethargy, difficulty breathing, and a racking cough. As death nears, those with the disease begin to bleed from their mucus membranes; then they start vomiting blood, and their eyeballs liquefy. Death comes when their lungs turn to liquid as well.*Inspection of the box and mask will reveal that both are from the Dark Ages. The box is made of a heavy, durable wood and shows considerable staining and water damage. The mask is made from remarkably smooth and hard porcelain and is of excellent craftsmanship. Magical inspection reveals that the mask is an incredibly powerful evil artifact and that the box is protected by wards that were broken when it was opened. Touching the mask or being near it for an extended time will result in hearing faint murmuring voices.*Researching the mask will reveal that its curse will continue to spread unless it is worn, in which case its magic will turn inwards, cursing its bearer to suffer madness and disease for all eternity. Will someone sacrifice themselves-or be sacrificed-to save others? Alternately, the curse can be contained with wards or possibly even destroyed, but those methods are apparently lost and must be re-created by analyzing the residue on the box and the magic of the mask. This process that could take months, during which time the epidemic continues its advance.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, magic, roleplaying-heavy==A Run on the Banks*Bent on causing chaos, a demon with tremendous reach and influence spreads a perfidious message: "Don't listen to what the government is telling you. Your money isn't safe. The banks are failing. Get your money out now before there's nothing left." In a panic, people across the world make a run on the banks. Nervous governors call out the local militia to control the crowds. In turn, the crowds escalate into riot mode and move from the well-guarded banks to the undefended shops and storefronts. The mobs overrun security and steal whatever they can get their hands on.*Can the PCs survive the anarchy? Signs of supernatural influence are present, but the PCs may not have time to deal with them. On the flipside, if they don't track down the source of the rumor, they give up their most potent weapon for counteracting it and helping society return to normal.*At the height of the crisis, they're confronted by a series of obstacles. A race riot is building as the rioters blame a particular ethnic group for the economic crisis. Gang members have surrounded several police cars, threatening to take their revenge on the outnumbered cops. The roads are choked with desperate refugees who fixate on the PCs, surround them, and try to strip them of all their possessions. On a street corner, revolutionaries rouse an impromptu mob to loot government buildings and banks.*After a week, the government has mobilized the army to quell the violence. Whose side are the PCs on?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Western*Tags: (TT) city, difficult choice, epic impact, intrigue, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social, trade*Falling Prey to Cruelty or Misfortune==Childish Behavior*A widower with a 10-year-old son is angry at the world  for his failures and has begun to practice black magic in order to feel more powerful. Most of what he calls his "craft" is utter nonsense, but he has somehow acquired a text that is legitimate and dangerous. The father is now able to cast actual spells, though he doesn't truly understand the risks involved.*He discovered a spell to bind an evil spirit to a person, granting that person great power. Too scared to bind the demon to himself, the father decides to experiment by binding a spirit to his own son without the child's knowledge. A ghost-like presence now follows the child everywhere. The father explains the presence as the ghost of the child's dead mother, and says that she's showing disappointment in the child for not being a better son.*The father doesn't understand that the spirit takes on traits of the host's personality, and vice versa. The child is now cruel and violent while the spirit is scared and confused. People are being hurt in the child's presence for no apparent reason, and the violence is escalating. The PCs' services as ghost hunters or private investigators are requested by the child's concerned teacher or other caregivers.*The first encounter is in a toy store. The son is looking at an  expensive toy that he can't afford. The store clerk demands that the child put it back and says, "Buy something already, or get out!" Shortly thereafter, a heavy shelf tips over and crushes both of the clerk's legs.*The next encounter is at a nearby restaurant where the child meets the father. The father is "comforting" the son, and convinces the child that if he concentrates, he can help the father get revenge on the restaurant manager for some silly dispute. The child does so and a grease fire breaks out, burning the manager to death and causing a fire that destroys the restaurant.*These events continue to occur, with the child always present, and occasionally in the presence of the father as well. The damage continues to escalate until during the final conflict the father directs the child's malign power toward the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) city, innocent, investigative, magic, social, spirit, villain==The Winning Ticket*Oh, lucky day! The PCs, as is their practice, pool their money and buy a batch of lottery tickets. On the day of the drawing, the lottery balls fall in their favor. The lottery commission presents the PCs with a check for an exorbitant sum of money in what may be the happiest moment of their lives. It's also the moment when things begin to go horribly wrong.*Illnesses beset their loved ones. Charities, entrepreneurs, and schemers besiege the PCs, each of them looking to carve out a portion of the winnings for themselves. Minor accidents turn serious as a simple trip in the park results in a broken arm and jaw. Everywhere they turn misfortune strikes at the PCs with increasingly lethality.*A mysterious stranger comes to the party with the answer. The winning numbers bear an ancient curse that can only be lifted if the benefit gained from its use is given away. The trick, however, is not to simply give away the money: It must be given to righteous causes, and then only as much as each cause needs.*Before each attempt to donate the money, the curse will make a stab at the characters, something in line with their donation-for example, afflicting them with a disease right before they donate to an organization searching for a cure. Can the PCs find a way to give away such an amazingly large sum of money before the curse strikes any of them dead?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) city, difficult choice, investigative, magic, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox==Touched by an Old One*In a quaint rural town, everyone tries to help each other  and be the best neighbors they can be. Despite the unusual levels of compassion and thoughtfulness, the town's rate of accidents and crimes of passion is high. Many of the town's residents secretly receive guidance from angelic beings that appear to encourage the townsfolk's good behavior.*However, careful examination of the town's problems reveals they stem indirectly from the so-called good behavior encouraged by these invisible guardians. With fewer cares, some people are less cautious, which leads to accidents. Others are more inclined to sleep around, at which point they discover that while everyone seems nice, they still get angry about some things-adultery being one of them. These crafty spirits feed off of the suffering their attention causes, but avoid detection by being mostly helpful and leveraging their wards into strict secrecy.*The impossibly pleasant attitudes and helpful behavior of the townspeople should put visitors on edge-people just don't act this way outside of black-and-white 1950s TV shows. Everyone is polite, ready to help in any circumstance, and free of most vices. Everyone attends church services, which is a useful red herring. A good way to demonstrate the unnatural level of this attitude is to have the PCs witness a terrible accident and notice that despite the circumstances, everyone remains jovial and good-natured.*Most people refuse to admit that they have angelic guardians for fear of losing them, but many mention them in diaries or other places where they don't expect anyone to snoop. Occasionally, townspeople can be caught talking to thin air. Faced with such evidence, most people will still deny that anything's out of the ordinary and will take steps to be more discreet. If someone seems to be too close to discovering the town's secret, the angels aren't above dropping hints to townsfolk, leading them to fly off the handle and eliminate the problem.*If nosy individuals can't be eliminated or discouraged by their lesser dupes, the spirits will visit them personally and try to convince them to leave things alone. They'll point out how much better the standard of living is under their guidance than it is in other places, and if a few people have to get hurt on occasion, isn't that sacrifice worthwhile? If this attempt fails, they have plenty of minions in powerful positions in town who owe them a great deal and are more than willing to imprison persistent PCs indefinitely-or even kill them outright.*Doing research in the town archives and library uncovers the ancient book that was used to summon the spirits-and which can be used to banish them. Banishing the spirits will turn the town into a less-idyllic but also less dangerous community.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) difficult choice, innocent, investigative, isolated area, sandbox, social, spirit, villain==The Cure*An isolated community is beset by a creature that can  transform its victims into creatures like itself (the classic examples are the vampire, werewolf, and zombie). Not long after the community and the PCs fend off the initial attacks, a government organization comes to protect them. Unfortunately, the government agents see an opportunity to gather intelligence on the creature and perhaps seek a cure. They now have a community full of guinea pigs on which to conduct tests. Once they're finished, they'll likely cover up their research by eliminating the community.*This adventure begins simply enough. The PCs enter a community (or are already members) and confront a monstrous creature. During the hunt, it becomes obvious that the threat will be difficult to overcome: Either there are too many creatures or the monsters are almost impervious to damage. The PCs are forced into a defensive posture, trying to hold out as long as they can while someone attempts to get help.*As luck would have it, when all seems lost, help arrives. Government agents enter the community and are knowledgeable enough about the creatures to set up a defensive perimeter and organize hunting parties. At first it seems that the agents' efforts, especially with the PCs' help, will be sufficient to root out the threat. Unfortunately, strange things start happening at home.*People start to disappear. The creatures breach the perimeter, although once they've observed its behavior and abilities, agents are always on hand to contain the threat. People that weren't anywhere near the creatures start transforming and have to be put down. To their horror, the PCs soon discover the entirety of the agents' plans; they must stop the agents and expose their motives before everyone dies.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) alliance, betrayal, combat-heavy, innocent, isolated area, monster, tactical planning*Revolt==The Castle*The PCs are guardians for a person of authority in a region of relative lawlessness, perhaps a business magnate in a developing country. Over time, the magnate has turned from martyr to pariah as his well-intentioned plans and gestures fall apart. The trust of the masses erodes as a rough situation grows worse with each decision he makes.*The people won't stand for it any longer. A group of protesters sets out to harass the magnate, hoping to goad him into stepping down. They follow him to every engagement, pelt him with rotten fruit, shout obscenities about him and his family, and repeatedly make a public nuisance out of themselves. The first time the PCs disperse the protesters, the situation diffuses without much kickback. The second time, however, the protesters turn violent. Several draw weapons and attack the PCs and their charge.*If the PCs manage to get the authority figure to safety, there's a moment of respite before an armed resistance group lays siege to his residence and takes his family hostage. This presents the PCs with the challenge of rescuing the abducted family members while still keeping the magnate under guard. The task proves too difficult: The militants circumvent the PCs' security measures and execute the magnate just as the rescue team saves his family.*The party then faces a decision. If left alone, the revolutionaries will surely slaughter the remaining family members to eliminate their memory. However, with the magnate dead, the PCs become pro-bono bodyguards. If they choose to stay with the family, they mark themselves as enemies and become targets themselves.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) city, combat-heavy, difficult choice, escort mission, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, mass combat, mature themes, politics, rebellion, siege, stealth, tactical planning==Freedom*Lost in the woods, the PCs come across a rustic resort that's almost entirely cut off from the outside world. Cell phones can't get a signal, and even satellite phones cease to function; messages come and go by courier. The old man who runs the place is a bundle of nerves, but he's a humane person and he's happy to help those in need. A brief social scene gives the PCs a chance to interact with the old man.*Two scoundrels arrive on the scene and are introduced to the PCs. The scoundrels are obviously criminals. Another social encounter should take place to establish that the men are up to no good.*Near the resort is a pit that the old man warns his guests to avoid. The two scoundrels incorrectly assume that something valuable is in the pit. They enter the pit in search of some form of treasure, but soon succumb to a powerful evil and are possessed. When they emerge from the pit, they've taken on a ghastly appearance and begin roaming the woods looking for other people to possess. When they show up at the resort, the old man appears ready to slaughter the scoundrels with a shovel.*The PCs may assume that the old man wants to kill the scoundrels for pleasure. The old man attacks with the fury and passion of a madman. If the PCs attack the old man, he'll retaliate with blind rage. If the PCs kill the old man, the scoundrels' corpses will rise as mutilated monsters and attack the PCs. In retrospect, it may become clear that the old man was trying to protect others from the evil of the pit.*If the old man survives this encounter, he'll explain the evil in the pit-though by then it's too late. The PCs will encounter many demonic and horrific creatures that emerge from the pit to warp the world around them. Encounters include attacks by possessed creatures from the woods, former occupants of the resort who succumbed to the evil, or even the trees themselves.*The final conflict is with a demonic entity, and once that entity is put down, things return to normal and the PCs can leave with the next courier.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) alliance, exploration, investigative, isolated area, magic, siege, social, spirit, twist==Becoming a Better Man*Another team of adventurers unwittingly unleashed a  curse on one of their members while exploring a profane altar. Only recently released from an asylum, the curse causes ever smaller parts of his body to attain independent sentience. In its initial stages, the curse increases one's health due to the influence of the sentient organs, but as more and smaller tissues become sentient, madness and eventually dissolution occur.*The PCs run into an old acquaintance on the street and are surprised at how good he looks. However, he seems distracted at best and neurotic at worst. He says that he has to finish his jog, but asks them to meet him for dinner that evening. At dinner his behavior is uncharacteristic; odder still, he talks to himself about what topic to bring up next in conversation.*The next afternoon the PCs get a call from one of their acquaintance's associates who heard that the friend and the PCs caught up the prior evening. He asks for the PCs' help figuring out what's wrong with their friend. He explains that the friend started acting strange and hearing voices when they uncovered an altar in a cave system in the woods. Upon their return, the friend spent some time in an asylum. Though he was released, his behavior is worsening again, and they've been unable to determine the cause.*Exploring the caves at the associate's request, the PCs have to deal with deadfall traps and venomous snakes. Eventually they find the engraved altar and are able to copy the runes for study. Researching the eldritch engravings leads to a description of the curse and a possible cure.*Having compiled the ritual, the PCs call the friend to give him the good news, but hear only gurgling and faint whispers on the other end. Racing to the friend's apartment and breaking in, they discover him lying on the floor, his flesh quivering like jelly as it begins to dissolve, the murmuring of billions of tiny voices in the air.*If the PCs can complete the ritual in time, their friend will require an extended hospital stay, but will eventually recover. If they fail, their friend will dissolve into a pool of viscous slime before their eyes.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, artificial life form, deadline, dungeon crawl, exploration, innocent, investigative, madness, race, relationship hook, social==Trouble in Paradise*The PCs are in an exotic tropical resort, either on vacation or on business. Unfortunately, a revolution takes place soon after the PCs arrive. The revolutionaries, in their fervor, blame the PCs, tourists, and foreign businessmen for exploiting their people. The PCs must find a way out of the hot zone before they become statistics in the opening round of a civil war.*This scenario works best if the PCs have some time to enjoy the resort before the action starts. Paint an idyllic picture and allow the party to interact with and get to know people who will become victims (or perhaps killers). At the appropriate moment, spark off the revolution with an unexpected attack. This first attack should take place while the PCs are enjoying themselves. Perhaps the serving staff starts mowing down club-goers or dinner guests with submachine guns, or a missile blasts the ground floor of their hotel.*After the shock and awe, the revolutionaries round up survivors and demand that they hand over valuables (including ATM cards). They round up other guests as hostages to hold for ransom, and to use as human shields. The PCs have to find some means of escape while the revolutionaries cut off the obvious exits.*To add an extra level of horror, perhaps the revolutionaries are coerced by an ancient artifact, instigating monster, or charismatic leader to "cleanse the resort," and take no prisoners. The PCs have to find the artifact, destroy the monster, or take down the leader in order to survive.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) combat-heavy, innocent, rebellion, stealth, tactical planning*Daring Enterprise==Ignorance Is Bliss*A psychic investigator wants to acquire irrefutable proof  that spirits do exist. The investigator has been granted permission to stay for one week in an abandoned hospital that is supposedly haunted. The PCs are hired to be part of the investigative team, are members of the press covering the event, or are working on behalf of the owners of the property to ensure that the investigator doesn't violate the terms of the agreement.*The hospital has a very elaborate history. It served the poor and down-trodden, but there are stories that the medical staff used this as a cover for bizarre and inhumane research. The head nurse was convicted of murders she committed as an "angel of mercy," killing those she deemed to be beyond help. The psychiatric ward housed the criminally insane, and several violent incidents took place within its walls.*The hospital is indeed haunted and extremely dangerous, but no recording device can capture the events that transpire within. Obsession drives the investigator insane, and he becomes a threat to the PCs if they attempt to flee. The hospital itself attempts to prevent any character from leaving the premises.*Encounters for this plot should prey upon lone PCs as much as possible. Possible encounters include a PC being locked in the psychiatric ward and having visions of the horrors one of its residents once saw, the ghost of the "angel of mercy" trying to smother a PC while he sleeps in a hospital bed, a deranged surgical team performing an examination upon a character in one of the operating rooms, and corpses in various stages of autopsy attacking anyone who enters the morgue.*How the adventure concludes is up to you. The environment is lethal, but if they keep their wits about them the PCs should be able to figure out a way to escape with their lives.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) escort mission, investigative, isolated area, madness, magic, roleplaying-heavy, siege, spirit==Orchid Expedition*A remote jungle holds the key to an eccentric billionaire's  obsession du jour, collecting the rarest known orchids. Though a flower hunt seems a silly reason to mount an expedition to such a wild and dangerous place, it's a task for which the PCs are paid well.*The eccentric benefactor recently purchased an overseas estate with an extensive library. On the musty shelves was a diary that once belonged to a friar; this friar accompanied early explorers into the jungle on a quest for gold. During his adventure, the friar kept a record of the animals and plants he encountered. One of those is an undocumented orchid, which the book hints at by way of an ancient watercolor painting and a quick description.*Unfortunately for the billionaire and his expedition, the orchid is the last of its kind. A horrific jungle creature of immense size guards the gorgeous flower and can muster the land's most deadly creatures to aid in its defense. Gigantic prehistoric mammals, killer vines and trees, native allies, and grotesque, venomous insects assail the party at the jungle spirit's behest. Use these encounters to reinforce the "lost world" vibe of this trek.*The sole survivor of the billionaire's last expedition bursts into camp, frail and wild-eyed. He claims to know where the flower grows, but says that he lacks the courage to retrieve it. He leads the party to a group of natives who tell fables of the jungle spirit and his benevolent nature. The natives' history tells of the great champions who will take the orchid from the jungle and spread the nature spirit across the planet.*Like a spider that waits at the center of its web, the jungle spirit is only luring the characters in so it can strike. The jungle spirit is an enormous carnivorous pitcher plant-a giant cousin of the tantalizingly beautiful orchid. Defeating this creature is the only way to secure a specimen.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) bearers, betrayal, escort mission, exploration, isolated area, monster, spirit, travel, twist, villain==Temple of the Albino Death Pig*The PCs learn that an item they need can be found in a particular Mesoamerican-style jungle temple. The temple is guarded by the spirit of a great albino pig which will haunt any who profane the sacred place; the temple is also protected by traps and a powerful curse.*Finding guides to the temple proves problematic. Anyone familiar with its location will be reluctant to escort the PCs there, though most will provide directions. If guides are convinced to accompany the PCs, they desert the group when they notice they're being shadowed by a large creature in the underbrush. Those that don't desert immediately will certainly do so after the temple guardian leaves the group a warning: the lifeless body of one of their members, with an enormous porcine footprint on his caved-in chest.*Once in view of the temple, the pig spirit will materialize and try to kill the intruders. Being a powerful spirit entity, it may be immune to most non-magical attacks. If the PCs flee into the temple, the spirit will lie in wait for them to exit. This could be due to the difficulty of manifesting in human-sized quarters, a fear of the temple's curse, or because of wards that prevent spiritual incursion into the temple proper.*The temple is divided into three clearly defined areas. There are public spaces that are open and easy to navigate, locked private areas where the priests once lived and worked, and sections that are sealed and trapped such as treasure vaults, oubliettes, and dungeons. Entering the trapped areas will also invoke the temple's curse.*The curse causes vine-like growths to emerge, slowly and painfully, from the pores of the afflicted. These vines can be cut, but it's an excruciating process. Skeletons cocooned in husks of dense thorny vines can be found near the cursed areas, giving the PCs a clue as to the danger that awaits them.*Once the item is secured and the waiting pig guardian has been killed or bypassed, the PCs can return home. However, they must still deal with the curse. The PCs will be haunted by fleeting glimpses of a large white shape in the corner of their eye, tufts of coarse white hair on sharp protrusions, and porcine footprints in soft soil for some time.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (MN) betrayal, dungeon crawl, exploration, isolated area, magic, race, sandbox, spirit, travel==Going Shopping*The world has gone to hell, overrun with creatures out to destroy humanity; zombies and post-apocalyptic wasteland mutants both fit the bill. The PCs are part of a human enclave waiting for the final piece of the key (artifact, miracle cure, etc.) that will enable them to turn back the tide and allow humanity to survive. Unfortunately, the courier of the key and her entourage encountered too much resistance and holed up in a shopping mall along with other survivors. The creatures are now laying siege to the mall. The PCs must leave the safety of their enclave, travel to the mall, retrieve the key, and return home.*One way to make the journey interesting is to use the environment to provide some small security for the PCs. If the creatures are winged, the PCs might be safe indoors or in heavy woods. If the creatures are vampires, the PCs might be able to move freely during the day. Don't be afraid to rip up the security blanket occasionally: One or two winged creatures may maneuver around the trees, and an overcast day allows the vampires to come out at early dusk.*Once the PCs get to the mall, they have to find a way inside and convince the defenders that they're friends, not foes. If you're feeling devious, the creatures have already penetrated the defenses, forcing the PCs to move quickly before the creatures claim the key.*Save a final twist for the return home. Perhaps the entire exercise was a decoy (this works well with intelligent creatures): The courier and the PCs were bait for the creatures while the real courier got through. Perhaps the courier or a member of her entourage was infected and turns into one of the creatures in the eleventh hour. Or perhaps the PCs return home only to find their own enclave under attack. Are they too late to save their friends?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) bearers, betrayal, combat-heavy, epic challenge, monster, siege, tactical planning*Abduction==Family Matters*The attractive, sassy bartender at the PCs' favorite watering hole is actually part-demon, though she has tried to sever all ties to her infernal family. One night while serving her famous Bloody Marys, she gets tipsy and tells the PCs most of her story, leaving out her supernatural heritage. When she moves from tipsy to drunk, she also teaches them a bit of minor magic. One spell stands out: If the caster chants it over someone's pillow and then sleeps on the pillow that night, he'll dream the same dream as the person who last used the pillow.*Before closing time, her cousin strolls into the bar; he's tall, well-built, and sports a nasty sunburn. The bartender becomes quiet and avoids her cousin as much as possible. The cousin, however, stares at the bartender non-stop, ordering drink after drink. She invites an attractive PC home with her for the night, and talks about moving on to a new town to keep ahead of her kin. Both she and the PC feel like they're being watched, but investigation reveals only shadows.*The next time the PCs visit the bar, she isn't there-and the owner is annoyed by her unscheduled absence. When the PCs check up on her, they find the latch on her front door broken, small signs of a struggle, and no bartender. Using the new spell on her pillow, one PC experiences her last dream that night.*It begins as a pleasant jaunt to an amusement park with friends, but soon turns nightmarish. A sulfur smell pervades everything, and the reflections in everyone's eyes show demons all around her. At the end of the dream, when she's beginning to wake up, the PC sees a warped and twisted version of her cousin looming over her.*She was taken to a nearby junkyard to be punished for abandoning her family. The PCs can learn her location by tailing her cousin when he shows up at the bar again, or through visions: An undisclosed side effect of the dream spell is that it creates a minor link between the dreamer and the caster. Before the final confrontation with her family-which can be an all-out fight with demons or a more subtle affair, depending on the style of your campaign-the PCs should have a run-in with one or two of her demonic kindred.*Saving the bartender can earn the PCs an interesting ally, and also involve them in the world of demons.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) city, innocent, investigative, monster, relationship hook, social, villain==Involuntary Djinni*At a famous haunted hotel, a paranormal investigator who  knows a spell to capture spirits in enchanted jars has kidnapped a ghost, incensing the rest of the normally benign host. This uncharacteristic surge of angry and violent phenomena has turned the hotel into a madhouse as ghost hunters of all stripes try to find the source of the change.*Shortly after the PCs check into their room, objects begin to fly about the room. The objects aim for the PCs, with intent to injure. Sheets attempt to trip or blind, furniture slides into shins, and loose objects hurtle through the air. The PCs can sustain significant damage if they don't defend themselves well. The attack culminates with the large mirror on the bureau toppling to the floor, its shards carving the number 57 (the room where the ghost was kidnapped) into the hardwood floor.*While in the hotel, the PCs have vivid dreams and find that ghost-hunting techniques are very fruitful. Common themes include phrases such as "57," "Stolen," or "Where is he?" as well as images of a dapper man in a gray suit (easily identifiable as one of the hotel's ghosts), a man with stringy red hair (the thief), or an ornate jade vase (the jar).*The hotel holds a weekly sance for guests during which there's a similar spike in supernatural phenomena based around the same themes. Close to the end of the event, PCs will feel an icy hand on their backs and a tug on their clothing. Following the apparition, the PCs make their way to the kitchen. Once there, another poltergeist attack occurs. During this attack, only bottles and jars are thrown, smashing on the floor at the PC's feet. They will be hurt only if they're unlucky.*If less subtle clues are necessary, have the PCs find a newspaper article featuring a picture of the man from the visions and an announcement about an upcoming curio auction. The man's name matches the registration book for room 57.*Visiting the collection to be auctioned off, the PCs can find a sealed jar from their visions, and it's advertised as containing a real ghost. Opening the jar will allow the ghost to escape, but won't prevent the culprit from trying the same trick again unless the PCs can find a way to discourage him.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) alliance, deadline, innocent, investigative, madness, race, rivalry, sandbox, shady, social, spirit, stealth, trade, villain==Innocents Lost*A very pregnant friend is missing. A neighbor found the  door unlocked and the house empty and called the woman's out-of-town husband, who in turn called one of the PCs. The house shows no sign of a struggle, and a police officer at the scene says it's too soon to declare it a kidnapping. The front and back doors are unlocked, the bed is unmade, and the pregnant woman's purse, wallet, and ID are still there. One neighbor heard a car early in the morning, idling nearby before it drove off. Another saw a couple of bikers parked across the street in a plumber's van yesterday; one had a devil's head tattoo on his arm, a symbol of the Legion motorcycle gang.*The Legion claims to be satanic, but mostly deals drugs, fences stolen goods, and runs a chop shop. They can be very violent and are not to be trifled with.*A filthy plumber's shop is around the corner from the Legion's bar, a van parked outside. On the dashboard is a roll of duct tape, a pair of gloves, a handkerchief, and a medicine bottle. Closer inspection shows that the bottle is ether, an anesthetic that is also highly flammable. In the back of the van are three bikers, sleeping.*The Legion's leader has been influenced by a true devil-worshipper, and is convinced that he'll gain immortality if he sacrifices a pregnant woman. A number of the gang members don't like his plan, but he's already killed one of the bikers who protested-and nobody leaves the Legion.*The three bikers sent after the woman felt bad enough to use the ether on themselves afterwards, and left it on the dashboard before passing out in the back of the van. Many of the bikers don't want any part of this, so there are only a few in the bar today. They can be fought or negotiated with, but won't turn over their leader easily.*The woman is being held in the plumbing shop, which is a front for the gang's chop shop. A few more bikers are keeping guard and will respond to gunshots in the bar. The priest, the leader, and a few bikers have already begun the ritual in the back room. If they aren't stopped within a few minutes, the ritual will end with the summoning of a demon who's much more interested in eating everyone it sees than granting the biker immortality.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) deadline, innocent, investigative, monster, siege, social, stealth, tactical planning, villain==Bed Time*For this plot to work, the PCs must be children, making it ideal as a one-shot or convention event. The PCs are told the story of a devil that kidnaps children from parents who have committed a horrible sin. That night, the PCs go to sleep and wake up in the nightmare world.*The first encounter in the nightmare world involves each PC waking in his or her bed. The beds are all together in a dark cave; pale moonlight cascades in from the cavern's entrance. The PCs hear a rustling sound, and a flock of creatures that appear to be large spiders with bat wings and scorpion-like tails attacks them.*The purpose of this attack is to separate the PCs from their beds. If the PCs run out of the cave, they immediately start sliding down the smooth, icy surface of a mountainside. The PCs land at the edge of a forest. Glowing eyes peer out at them from the woods, and they can see a rough trail that heads deeper into the forest. A cottage sits silhouetted on the horizon, perched on a bare hill above the trees.*If the PCs enter the cottage, a trap is sprung. If caught in the trap, they encounter a witch who plans to boil them into soup. The witch explains that they're in the nightmare world because of their parents' sins. How the PCs escape is up to them.*Taking the trail in the woods leads to an encounter with the devil who abducted the children. The devil reveals that they're his payment, and that at least one of their parents made a deal with the devil. Fighting the devil is futile as it can conjure up horrible creatures to torment the PCs.*The only way to escape the nightmare world is to find the beds they were sleeping on when the PCs first woke up. The PCs will have to avoid the devil's minions, scale an icy mountain, and find their way to back to the cave that contains their beds. If the PCs return to the real world, you can begin a new adventure based upon their knowledge that one of their parents bartered their child's soul to the devil.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) betrayal, exploration, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, mature themes, monster, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, travel, twist==The Chess Master*A new rave club has taken root in an old downtown  neighborhood. Located in an abandoned metalwork factory and featuring twisting metal staircases, dancing poles, and metal-latticed dcor, it quickly became a sensation. Several recent disappearances, however, have patrons and investors concerned.*A madman is behind the disappearances, using secret passages to infiltrate parts of the club from his maze-like basement abode three stories below the main floor. He and his bloodthirsty minions spy on the dancing masses, select a victim, and abduct them.*Deep below the club, he keeps his collection of abductees in individual cages. These cages feed into a single, larger cage, the floor of which is painted like a black and white chessboard. His wants to collect two teams of "chess pieces," arm them with improvised weapons of jagged metal, and then pit them against each other in a grand battle. He promises his captives freedom when the game is over, if they're on the winning side-but when the game ends he and his minions fully intend to satisfy their bloodlust in an orgy of slaughter.*The PCs' investigation will reveal correlations between the nature of each victim and types of chess pieces. The black team is comprised of club workers such as dishwashers and servers (pawns), a soldier on leave (knight), a dancer in a nun's habit (bishop), a biker (rook), a female impersonator (queen), and a bartender (king). The white team has homeless and vagabonds (pawns), a woman in a fanciful police officer costume (knight), a man whose name is Bishop (bishop), an emergency medical technician (rook), a rich divorcee (queen), and the club's disk jockey (king).*The madman's minions haunt the bowels of the building, and may be encountered selecting new victims or satisfying their other unsavory desires. It's possible the chess master orders one of the PCs abducted and then throws him in with the homeless pawns on white.*The madman taunts the investigating PCs through messages littered with chess references. One PC finds a chess notation, "Kn e7-c6, check," written in blood on his bathroom mirror; another finds the dancer's costume habit folded neatly into her bureau.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) betrayal, city, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, villain==Bestseller*An author has the ability to predict the future in his  writings. While he's unaware of it, his novels actually portray real events that don't happen until after the book has been published. The details are different, but the story remains the same. Unfortunately, someone has learned of his gift and has kidnapped the author in order for him to write a novel that fulfils the kidnapper's wishes.*The opening scene features one of the PCs in a normal setting, such as sitting on a subway train, relaxing on the beach, or stopping in a coffee shop. The PC happens to see someone reading a book and, upon reading the back cover, notices that one of the party's past adventures is encapsulated there, only with names and events changed. The book is part of a series, and a perusal of the others (and their publication dates) confirms that this author seems to have recorded some or all of the PCs' previous adventures before they happened.*As it turns out, the author is having a book signing at a chain bookstore nearby. If the PCs meet the author, they discover that he has no idea who they are. He claims that he made up all of the plots himself. Indeed, he may even get cross with them, believing that they're trying to scam him for plagiarism.*Later, the PCs discover that the author has missed a couple of his signings. His agent claims that nothing is wrong; the author emailed him to say that he was going into seclusion to work on his latest novel. If the PCs investigate, they discover that the email wasn't written in the author's usual style. Complicating matters is that the author gets back in contact and asks that his novel be published in serial format, with each installment making certain "predictions."*Who kidnapped the author? Did one of the PCs' old enemies discover the author's talent before they did, or was it someone else? Can the author actually create the future, rather than just predicting it-and if not, how long will it be before his captor murders him?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) innocent, investigative, magic, race, sandbox*The Enigma==The Company*An activist who is trying to stop the construction of an oil  refinery in the area asks the PCs for help, whether because of their occult contacts or a personal tie. She wants to defeat the "demon" that plagues her home country: oil. She needs them to dig up dirt on the company to aid her in blocking the construction, and she offers to pay them well for their trouble.*The company is a legitimate business, but it's also a front for a parasitic supernatural entity. This entity drains the will of its workers in order to survive, eventually killing them; the company's products aren't affected. When enough workers have died in one area and further deaths would risk exposing the entity, the company builds another refinery and the spirit moves there to begin the process anew. The activist knows the truth, but doesn't share it with the PCs right away.*The new refinery is eagerly anticipated by locals: Times are tough, and it will employ many people. The company has filed all of the proper paperwork, and the city has no grounds or reason to block its construction. To learn more about the company, the PCs must sneak into their local office or the construction site offices, infiltrate the company by posing as-or becoming-employees, or otherwise gain access to current employees and files.*The spirit has already migrated to the site of its future home, and is draining construction workers and other employees to stay alive, though not yet to the point of death. During their investigation, the PCs will be approached by a contact who asks them to call off their work, and can pay handsomely; he has been paid off by the company. Once enough supernatural clues pile up, the activist will reveal the true nature of the company and the entity. The company will make a direct attempt to stop the PCs before they put all the pieces together, sending supernaturally enhanced thugs to attack them.*To stop the entity, the PCs can starve the creature by de-sanctifying the refinery site, denying it the ability to drain nearby people, while keeping it from jumping to another site. The spirit will possess people directly in order to stop them, and will drain PCs at an accelerated pace. The PCs can also simply confront the spirit directly and destroy it outright, though this will be difficult to say the least.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (SM) alliance, deadline, innocent, investigative, sandbox, shady, spirit, trade, travel, twist, villain==Glass Ceiling*The PCs and several NPCs awaken in a windowless conference room. The room is filthy and the furniture is in a style several decades old. A tape recorder plays a message similar to a new employee orientation. The end of the message says, "Promotion is only possible through dedication to the company's founding principles."*For this plot to be most effective, the PCs should be average people. Each PC remembers being abducted by figures wearing all black who injected them with some kind of drug. Also involved are a number of NPCs equal to half the number of PCs, but no less than three. These NPCs recall the same abduction scenario as the PCs.*The PCs and NPCs may explore the environment and discover that they're in a filthy office building with no exits or windows. There's no food and no water. There are simple tools on this level, such as box cutters and hammers.*In one part of the office is a section of ceiling made of glass. Above it there's a ladder suspended from the ceiling. The glass isn't difficult to break, but falling shards could be deadly to those below. Once someone grabs hold of the ladder, that character suffers non-lethal but incredibly painful electric shock. The ladder is the only way to ascend the 10 feet of smooth walls between floors.*Every level of this office building has a glass ceiling and a ladder. As the PCs ascend the levels, the office space becomes cleaner and more modern-looking. A duffle bag containing a day's worth of food and water for everyone waits on each new level. Heavier tools and knives replace the simple implements; eventually, primitive weapons replace the tools. The only way out is via the roof, several levels up.*The ladders only descend when a character dies, either in an accident or at the hands of another character. The traps protecting the ladders become more lethal at the higher levels. Use the NPCs to provoke both violence and sympathy from the PCs. Don't sacrifice NPCs easily, and try to use them to turn the PCs against each other.*Once the PCs escape, the larger mystery remains: Who's behind this nightmare scenario, and why did they subject the PCs and NPCs to this harrowing experience?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) alliance, betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, exploration, innocent, isolated area, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social==The Unholy Triangle*Recently, the news has been dominated by stories of  strange phenomena. It's been the sort of stuff that gets the end-of-the-world types blogging, calling radio stations, and gathering in suicide cults. Whether it's an earthquake here or a tidal wave there, there's little to connect these events rationally-that is, until a mysterious benefactor flies the characters, as investigators, to a remote village in a desert region. The latest quake opened a fissure there, and miners discovered a cache of ancient treasures.*Exploring the site, the PCs uncover a trapped secret chamber containing prophetic scrolls which speak of the current catastrophic events. They describe three markers, "the Unholy Triangle" from which demonic forces are foretold to rise. The quotations mention "three into one" as a catalyst for the apocalyptic invasion.*Deeper exploration leads to a map room where a glass and tile mosaic depicts the world as the ancients knew it. With the help of the prophetic scrolls, the PCs can easily pinpoint the three locations identified as the Unholy Triangle.*Each of the three vertices on the Triangle is a historical landmark from a different ancient culture. On an island in the middle of the sea is an ancient lighthouse. In the middle   of a continental desert stands a mysterious pyramid. In the equatorial jungles, an immense, inverted ziggurat hangs from the branches of massive trees. Exploring the first two locations, the characters encounter a recently awoken demon and its minions at each site. The second demonic agent is demonstrably stronger and smarter than the first.*By defeating each demon, the party unwittingly plays into the prophecy. With each demon slain, the remaining demons grow more powerful. When only one remains, that demon has enough power to open a portal and grant the inhabitants of the demonic planes a gateway to the planet.*When the party finally arrives at the last Triangle site, they find the demon well on its way to completing the ritual that will bring about the apocalypse. The PCs must defeat the most powerful demon before it completes the spell and dooms the entire planet.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) dungeon crawl, epic challenge, epic impact, exploration, investigative, monster, twist, villain==Metamorphosis*A creature infects the PCs, causing them to slowly  transform into creatures just like it. The PCs must track down and destroy this creature or apply the cure before the transformation is complete. This scenario presumes that the PCs don't already possess the cure, and that it's not easily accessible; the PCs may even need to research and create the cure themselves.*The opening of this scenario is straightforward: The creature attacks the PCs in an isolated location. During the attack, one or more of the PCs are infected. Assuming that the PCs don't know about the infection and steps needed to cure it, an NPC or other method should be employed during this scene to alert the PCs. For example, a hunter may help the PCs fend off the initial attack and explain the infection-perhaps with the dramatic "We should kill your friend now, before she turns into one of them, just to be sure" speech. Alternatively, PCs with access to an extensive occult library or a contact who is an expert in the supernatural may seek the cure through those means.*The next scene involves hunting down the cure. The infected PC may have to fight off urges that would trigger the transformation early but may benefit from having access to some of the creature's powers. The PCs may also have to avoid other creatures while doing so, keeping uninfected PCs from being infected in the process.*If the cure is to kill the creature, the PCs need to discover its lair and confront it in a climactic battle. If the cure is a medicine, then the PCs need to acquire the rare good, but they'll be stalked while they search, as the creature and company want to welcome the new members. It's possible that a combination is necessary, such as killing or restraining the creature for an arcane ritual.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) deadline, isolated area, madness, monster, roleplaying-heavy==Last Tuesday, Last Day*Panicked video reports of people, things, and even entire places fading out of existence confirm that the world is slowly disappearing bit by bit. Looting and violence escalate as more and more of reality disappears. The last vestiges of humanity cluster together for security and to pool resources, while the rest of the world goes mad and slowly fades away.*On Tuesday morning, the hospital in which the PCs have holed up with several hundred other survivors loses its last contact with the outside world. Outside the windows, it seems like the building is floating in an endless gray mist-though strangely, the electricity in the building is stable. Several days have passed and everyone's nerves are frayed. A few people have stepped outside and simply faded out of existence. Resources are running low and tempers are flaring up.*The building houses a few small stores of weapons, scavenged during the last days. As the outlook gets bleaker, someone is likely to seize this cache to secure the largest portion of the remaining supplies for themselves.*There are a handful of doctors and many patients still in the hospital. Most of the doctors are doing their best to keep all the patients as healthy and comfortable as they can with supplies of drugs and food running low. They're likely to recruit anyone who seems competent to give them a hand.*In the psych ward is a young man who was brought in for treatment several weeks ago. Traditional therapy was unable to cure his delusions that the world was simply a figment of his imagination, and he was put on strong drugs. He now lies comatose on a hospital bed, muttering to himself, his eyes darting feverishly back and forth under their lids. The doctors are continuing his drug therapy, unaware that the patient is correct, and that the deeper into unconsciousness he slips the more of reality is destroyed.*After a few days, the stable area slowly begins to shrink. If left alone, the hospital will disappear around the sleeping patient, until he's allowed to wake up; the PCs might wake him up, or he can awaken automatically once everything else has ceased to exist. When he comes to, reality will assert itself once again, though it may be subtly different from before. Only those who survived the ordeal will realize that anything has changed.*This plot can be a useful tool for retconning something in the game that didn't work out as planned, but as always, do so with caution.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) deadline, difficult choice, innocent, isolated area, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, twist==Doll House*The house a few streets over is hungry. It feasts on the energy of its residents, leaving them tired, drained, and irritable even as it drives them to vice and insanity. As they disappear one by one, it seems to be as a result of domestic unrest. An old lover of one of the PCs begs her for help. The lover's family is being torn apart and he doesn't know what to do.*Interviewing the family reveals that none of them are happy. They're exhausted and irritable. Several of them daydream during their conversation with the PCs. They report voices, shapes, figures, and feelings of dread, especially in the basement and attic; they also complain of others' worsening behavior and addictions.*Searching the house turns up several stashes of alcohol, tobacco, and erotica, all of which everyone denies knowing about. In the basement, an old gore-encrusted hammer is found hidden above a pipe. A hidden attic room contains a dollhouse that's a near-perfect duplicate of the real house, and a collection of macabre dolls that the family's youngest daughter immediately falls in love with.*That night, everyone in the house is awoken by the mother's frantic search for the youngest daughter, who has gone missing. She sits in the hidden attic room, playing with the dollhouse in the dark. When disturbed, she's found playing with a set of dolls that look suspiciously like the family and the PCs. The daughter can be used as a vehicle to reveal the connection between the two houses, leading the PCs to the spots where evidence of foul deeds have been entombed in walls and buried in the basement.*As the PCs investigate further, they'll be threatened by malevolent shadows, including the specter of an old woman. The youngest daughter will become more and more distant. One evening, she sneaks into the PCs' room and attempts to murder them with a kitchen knife. After being subdued, she comes to her senses and claims the old woman made her do it. Questioned about the old woman, she says that the old woman owns the house and doesn't want anyone taking it from her.*The old woman's doll is older and slightly larger than the rest and is actually made from a mummified human finger. If the PCs try to destroy it, they'll be attacked by an unseen force that won't relent until it or the doll are destroyed. Once the doll is destroyed, the house will return to normal.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) alliance, deadline, innocent, investigative, madness, relationship hook, sandbox, social, spirit, villain*Obtaining==Make Sense of Madness with Dunwich Union*Outside of our reality lurks a race composed of such alien and abstract concepts that they can't exist in the mundane world. They seek out mortal agents to exert their will on the world, offering a spark of their power in exchange for services rendered. Their solicitation, an envelope emblazoned with the words "Make Sense of Madness with Dunwich Union" that contains an unaddressed insurance application form, appears as if by magic in the PCs' homes.*That night while the PCs are asleep, they awaken in a dreary gray office. Unknown things flicker at the corners of their vision. Sitting behind a desk in front of them is a small, hunched-over figure dressed in an impeccable suit. He thanks the PCs for coming and launches into a sales pitch for insurance. He's willing to sell each PC insurance, good for a single use, against any single event of their choice-even death-if they'll agree to perform two services for him. After negotiations, the PCs awaken.*The following day, those PCs that agreed to the trade receive a bill requiring them to deliver an envelope to an office in an abandoned warehouse. The office is on the second floor, roughly in the middle of the building. As they set down the envelope, a spreading area around it begins to rapidly age. Soon the floors begin to crumble and the PCs must race to make it out of the building before it collapses.*Their next bill comes the following day, requiring them to spend the afternoon at a nearby park and help anyone who asks. During their visit, a child wanders away from his mother, and the PCs are asked to help her in her search. Canvassing the park, the child is found walking away with some strangers who ditch the boy and break into a run as soon as the PCs try to stop them.*Their bills paid, the PCs who purchased policies receive them the next day. These magical insurance policies will protect their owner from the covered condition once. They operate subtly (someone with life insurance will still be hurt just not killed, for example) and crumble to fine ash upon use.*If the PCs did a good job with their tasks, they may be contacted again by Dunwich Union.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) bearers, deadline, innocent, madness, magic, politics, race, trade==In Case of Emergency, Break Glass*For centuries, a small community has been protected from a great evil that only comes once every century. The artifact that was the source of this protection was taken from the community and sold to a foreign museum. The legend of the artifact has been written off as a quaint primitive superstition by the museum's caretakers. They consider the object very valuable, and don't wish to part with it simply because of an outrageous legend.*The PCs believe otherwise, for they understand the danger. If the PCs have reason to visit foreign lands (whether as anthropologists, archaeologists, or tourists), then they may be in the village when the initial effects of the evil manifest. At this point, the evil force's influence may be minor, but far worse will happen if the PCs don't recover the artifact. If the community is primitive enough, it may have no idea who took the artifact, just an oral tradition describing the event.*The PCs should be able to discover who took it with a little legwork. An explorer, fortune hunter, or pirate may be responsible, and tracking his exploits would lead to the museum. The museum is in an urban location in a powerful country (America, France, and Great Britain are the usual suspects, but China or Russia would make an interesting change of pace). The curators, and by extension their governments, either don't believe the PCs, believe the legend but don't care, or they act so slowly that the evil rises before the primitive community gets the object back.*This leaves burglary or other methods of persuasion and extraction as the party's only option. Once they get the object they have to avoid arrest while trying to return the artifact to its proper place in time to stop the evil force from destroying the community. This should be a climactic scene in which the powers of the growing evil attempt to stop them.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) bearers, city, deadline, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, isolated area, monster, politics, religion, shady, stealth, travel==A Pound of Flesh*An antisocial loner discovered a spell that summoned a  monster, and he set the creature loose upon his worst enemy. The summoned beast tore his enemy to shreds. Now the outcast has discovered that the monster can't be dismissed unless it devours the summoner as well.*The only way that the summoner can maintain control of the monster is to feed it a pound of fresh human flesh every day. If the monster goes unfed, it attacks the outcast. The outcast lures victims to his mobile home or drives along interstate and picks up hitchhikers to feed to the monster. Sometimes the monster doesn't kill its meal, forcing the outcast to finish off the victim in order to protect his secret.*Hooks for this plot include being the outcast's only friends, knowing a victim, or escaping the outcast and the monster. Begin the session with encounters based upon the plot hook you choose. Sole friends of the outcast notice that he's more distant than usual and is obviously nervous about something. PCs who know a victim meet that victim before her death, and she describes being followed by the outcast or being tailed by the mobile home. PCs who escaped an attack as their plot hook are now being hunted by the outcast to prevent them from alerting the authorities.*The discovery of a mutilated corpse seeds the next encounter. Guilt or a desire to gloat, depending upon who was killed, drives the outcast to check out the crime scene. The PCs might spot the outcast, in which case regardless of what hook you used the outcast flees the area. This leads to a chase scene with the police as a third party that may or may not help the PCs.*If the PCs catch the outcast at the end of the chase, the monster escapes the mobile home to search for him-it needs to feed. If the outcast escaped the chase, he begins tailing the PCs; he plans to feed them to the monster in order to keep them from interfering with his plans.*Ultimately, the monster is likely to get the outcast, and depending on the hook you chose to get the PCs involved, they may or may not have a problem with that.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) innocent, investigative, madness, magic, monster, race, tactical planning==Please Ignore the Riots*A general recently seized control of his country, which still  teeters from the violence of their civil war. The streets are wracked with violent protests. The general hires the PCs to safely escort an investor around the region and play up the opportunities the country offers. He needs them to protect the investor, conceal the ongoing turmoil, and convince him that the country is safe and ready for investment.*The investor arrives without much understanding of recent history. He asks for a guided tour of several sites in surrounding cities, as well as tours throughout the capital city. He needs a space for a foundry and a manufacturing complex, with access to large pools of cheap local labor.*The former rulers of this country worshiped ancient and terrible gods, and even though they lost power, their cults still riddle the country and plague the young rule of the general. A spy on the general's staff reports the investor's arrival to the cult.*In the first city, cultists incite a riot when they storm a church. Cultists and religious devotees clash violently in the path of the PCs tour. The PCs will have to quell or explain away the violence and the riots and persuade the investor to continue the tour.*The second building site is quiet, though you may want to   tease your players with rolls and tense descriptions of loud haggling and non-violent protests. On the road to the third site, the investor's car and PC escorts will be attacked by a local militia manipulated by cult leaders. Spike strips and portable barriers make maneuvering difficult.*The cultists strike the investor's hotel the next night with summoned horrors or shadows of their mad gods, using the twisted magic granted by their worship. They attack fiercely, exhausting their reserves. Investigating the horrors may reveal the summoner's hideouts, but the PCs are committed to escorting the investor.*If they can convince the investor to continue, the rest of the tour goes smoothly. When the tour is complete, the general requests a debriefing. He offers a private meeting with the investor and asks the PCs to attend and reinforce the positive investment storyline. The cultists unleash a final assault during the meeting-killing either the investor or the general would be a huge success for their movement. For a tougher final confrontation, the investor can be an undercover cultist or be mystically booby trapped.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) city, combat-heavy, escort mission, magic, mass combat, monster, politics, race, rebellion, shady, siege, social, spirit, trade*Enmity of Kinsmen==Blood in the Jungle*The PCs are hired by an explorer to help him find out what happened to an expedition that went missing. The missing expedition was led by the explorer's brother, his professional rival. Everyone fears the worst for the lost sibling, but the PCs' patron is determined to find him. The trail leads deep into the jungle, eventually ending at a complex of ancient ruins.*In truth, the loss of contact is a ruse engineered by the lost sibling to lure the patron so that he can murder him. The discovery of a historical artifact of monetary and archaeological significance is at stake. The artifact possesses an otherworldly quality, suggesting that beings from another world or dimension played a role in the development of civilization.*Unfortunately, there's something else connected to the discovery: a vile protector spirit that seeks to slay interlopers. As the lost sibling lays traps and ambushes for the patron, the vengeful spirit of the jungle begins its assault on everyone present.*From here, the journey becomes one of evasion and surviving the protector spirit, which rouses the natural forces around it to assault the PCs. The earth trembles, triggering a rock slide as the characters walk past a cliff or try to traverse a ravine. While traveling down a stream, the water level begins to rise inexplicably. Within moments, the stream turns into a raging rapids and dashes their craft against the rocks. The PCs encounter a party of hunters who suddenly launch an unwarranted attack. A swarm of vermin, such as army ants, advance on the PC's position.*Can the discovery be preserved? Who will survive the trek from the jungle? Will the protector spirit cease its attacks once the PCs cross the threshold into civilization?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) alliance, betrayal, epic challenge, escort mission, exploration, intrigue, isolated area, relationship hook, rivalry, spirit, travel, twist, villain==Fun for the Whole Family*The PCs come across a circus in the middle of nowhere. It can be supernatural in origin if that best fits your campaign, but whatever the case, it looks entirely out of place. If the PCs enter the circus grounds during the day, they find the place abandoned. There's plenty of food and drink available, but there are no people or animals present to prepare or consume the meals. Prizes are hanging on the walls of booths with carnival games, yet there are no agents manning these booths. The ticket booth is at the entrance to the circus grounds, but again there are no attendants present and no tickets inside to find.*As the day ends and night creeps in, the various contraptions activate. Rides operate, music plays, and games buzz and light up. Hideously deformed circus performers appear, screaming "Thieves!" or "Trespassers!" at the PCs, and then start chasing them. If the PCs attempt to flee the circus grounds, the mutated circus animals that encircle the grounds (multi-headed tigers, skinned lion corpses, and skeletal elephants covered with slithering vipers) attack them. Until they can come up with a better plan, the PCs won't be able to escape the circus grounds.*There are three factions in the circus. There are the artists who perform stunts and athletic feats (acts like the trapeze, high wire, and human cannonball), freaks that are deformed sideshow attractions (the bearded lady, the alligator man, Siamese twins, etc.), and finally there are the clowns: savage cannibals who torture their prey before consuming them.*All three factions compete with each other to capture and kill the PCs. The factions brutally attack each other and, if any have captured PCs, try to steal their "prizes" from each other.*If the circus denizens get their hands on a PC, things don't go well for that character. In the big top, the trapeze artists loop a rope around one of the PCs and suspend the victim in midair. The artists then flip and swing past the victim, brutally kicking and punching him as they pass by. The clowns spray a PC's face with acid from a fake flower or seltzer bottle and then taunt the PC with kicks and slaps before biting into them for an evening meal. The freaks capture a PC and begin to "improve" the victim through mutilation.*Ultimately, the PCs must find a way to use the factions' natural animosity toward each other to give themselves a fighting chance at escaping the circus grounds.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) investigative, isolated area, madness, magic, mature themes, monster, race, stealth==Old Bones*The PCs have been receiving tips, information, and support to help them oppose a clan of vampires. Early objectives are small, but as successes add up, the stakes are repeatedly raised. Their supporters are careful to hide the fact that they are, in fact, a rival clan of vampires. Even if discovered they'll try a number of tactics to divert suspicions. If the PCs' suspicions can't be quieted, the clan will admit their nature but will try to continue the alliance because they share a common purpose.*The final pushes of the campaign include storming the clan's property holdings and lair, destroying any vampires that can be found. During the raids, the PCs' allies turn everything upside down and occasionally grab items they find interesting. Most of these won't be hotly argued over if the PCs want them or would rather see them destroyed. There is, however, a powerful artifact present. Each ally insists on having it, even if doing so ruins the alliance and leads to bloodshed. This artifact, the wire-wrapped forearm bones of an elder vampire, gives its bearer a lordly mien among the undead, and obtaining it was the sole goal of the vampires' alliance with the PCs.*After the raids, the PCs can maintain their alliance with the vampire clan, but it's clear that their mutual paths are at an end and that they are regarded only as useful tools.*With their major competition gone and the artifact in their hands, the PC's former allies are able to consolidate the majority of the remaining vampires of the city under their leadership. This time of relative peace means the vampire presence in the city is less obvious, but also that it grows larger and more deadly at a quicker pace than ever. Faced with a bigger threat than before, the PCs may have to undertake the task of recapturing and destroying the artifact they helped their allies obtain.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, betrayal, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, monster, sandbox, social, tactical planning, twist==Realized Rants Rewrite Reality*While out and about in the city, the PCs overhear a madman raving about his brother's fiendish plot: He seeks to modify traffic cameras throughout the city so that they fire gamma rays, disabling vehicles and bringing the city to its knees. Shortly thereafter, his ranting comes true: The PCs are onsite for a major accident, and while they're helping people out of the wreckage, they observe similar pileups at every intersection they can see.*After a day of chaos, during which scientists on TV discuss spikes in gamma ray activity throughout the city, things abruptly go back to normal. The PCs can track down the madman fairly easily, and when they do they find him in a state of shock. If they calm him down and buy him a beer, he'll explain that while he has always known how powerful and evil his brother was, he's never seen his malice demonstrated as clearly as this.*The madman has been given the ability to literally rewrite reality. Whatever he truly believes to be true will become so, no matter how outlandish. When he stopped believing in gamma-ray-shooting traffic cameras, they ceased to exist. His brother has been experimenting on him for years, and has finally hit on the result he wanted-but the madman escaped, and his mere existence now threatens the entire world.*As the PCs deduce the nature of his power, they'll find that beliefs related to the man's brother come true more often than those with no connection to him, and that the man's subconscious is very literal. If someone mentions racism, for example, then the next day everyone in the city's skin may be a uniform color of gray. With great care, the PCs can manipulate the man's beliefs to minimize his impact on the world-but not indefinitely.*While the PCs figure out what to do about the madman, his brother is searching for him. He wants to claim the madman's ability for his own, and means to kill him in the process. A direct conflict between the two men would be incredibly dangerous for the city's population-and for the PCs. The brother, who may be a super-villain, a wizard, or something else entirely, has figured out how the madman's ability works, and will use this against the PCs.*If there's no way to remove the madman's power, is it best for the world if he's put into a coma or killed? And will the PCs be willing to go this far?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) city, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, sandbox, social, villain==One Eye, Two Eyes*When a relative dies, one of the PCs is willed an allegedly haunted house. When the party first enters the foyer, they find the message "I 4 U" scrawled in charcoal in the foyer. Otherwise, the house has been untouched for over a decade. A few exotic items are scattered through the house, including a crystal skull in the dining room.*If anything in the house is altered or moved, accidents happen. Things fall or are "thrown" as if by an invisible hand, ladders tip, and breakers switch on or off. The more that is moved or changed, the more dangerous the accidents become. Oddly enough, the garage and basement are the areas most sensitive to disturbances. A one-eyed man may be glimpsed during these accidents.*The house was built over a century ago by a wealthy and eccentric woman who traveled extensively in her youth. She had twin sons but never married, which gave rise to all kinds of rumors. After the sons were born, she became very reclusive.*A newspaper in the basement is open to a story about the house. When the mother was in her sixties and her children in their forties, an explosion in the garage killed her and injured both of her sons. According to the paper, one lost an eye and the other suffered serious burns; he was forced to wrap himself in bandages for months after the accident.*In truth, the two-eyed brother died in the explosion, and the one-eyed brother swore he'd give his right eye to save him. The offer was accepted by a spirit bound to the crystal skull, and the dead brother was brought back to life, in a way. He wore bandages to cover his decomposing flesh. The one-eyed brother hated him, but couldn't harm his brother.*A decade later, the one-eyed brother was dying of cancer, and he managed to drag his brother into the furnace, hoping to kill both of them. But the furnace wouldn't light, and he died of dehydration. When he died, whatever animated his brother passed on as well. Now the one-eyed brother's spirit haunts the house.*The brothers' corpses are still in the furnace. One-eye's body is recognizable; the other brother is but a skeleton wrapped in bandages. Two options for releasing the spirit are contacting one-eye's spirit and forgiving him for his actions, or recovering both bodies from the furnace and giving them a proper burial.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) investigative, relationship hook, spirit, villain*==Winter Court*When the PCs have cause to visit Faerie, the land of the fey folk, to seek a boon or service from the faerie king, you can present them with the following challenge. In order to earn their desired boon, the king proposes that the PCs take part in a contest he has arranged for his kinfolk: Whoever returns with the Stone of Sight from the frost roc's nest shall be considered worthy to rule.*The faerie world is a strange, unsettling place, but the true horrors of this trip come in the form of the mythological monsters inhabiting the wild lands near the frost roc's nest. These include a tribe of minotaurs whose warriors show no mercy to trespassers, a medusa and her snake-folk minions in the caverns at the base of the roc's nest, a pair of one-eyed giants who hunger for human flesh that guard the path to the nest, and a rival faerie king who has dispatched a witch and her assistants to capture the Stone of Sight for himself.*While the kinsmen pledged to do no harm to one another, no such vow restrains the various retainers. Just as the PCs reach the nest, a rival group of stone-seekers appears to challenge them. The frost roc attacks the PCs after they claim the stone. On their return journey, a genie with powers of ice and snow pursues the stone and tries to slay its bearers.*In the concluding scene, however, all the parties learn that it is not capturing the stone itself that determines the champion. When the king uses the stone, it reveals which contestant was pure of heart and true to the spirit of the test. It is that person or persons who will be declared champions of the winter court-and if the PCs win, they'll receive their boon.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) alliance, bearers, betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, epic impact, escort mission, monster, rivalry, travel, twist, villain==Mealworms*The PCs are contacted by an old friend who's concerned about his brother's health. He and his brother have always traded a fair amount of teasing, but lately his brother has become much more aggressive. In addition, he has trouble concentrating and suffers frequent headaches, is pale and clammy, and has put on a startling amount of muscle. He's constantly taking pills from an unmarked bottle and has started disquieting the rest of the help on their farm. As if his personal problems weren't bad enough, animals and people have been going missing in town every few weeks.*The brother found the pills in an antique shop, along with a note indicating they were for "physical vigor and sharp mind." Buying them on a lark and taking them whenever he needed a psychological boost, he's unaware that they're actually the eggs of an exotic parasitic worm that causes dangerous physiological and psychological changes. He has taken enough pills that his body is now infested with the worms, causing irreparable damage and permanent derangement, as well as giving him a voracious appetite.*Careful observation of the infected brother will make his abnormal symptoms obvious. In addition, especially observant PCs may notice even more disturbing details such as worms moving under his skin, or blood and worms being ejected when he sneezes or coughs.*The infected brother is an avid hunter and often takes weekend hunting trips, but they have lately been unproductive. This is because with his parasite-fueled hunger, he simply eats his kills raw. Lately his hunger has become so powerful that he has turned his hunting skills on domestic prey, slipping out at night and murdering and consuming whatever he can find. He has tried to victimize only animals, the homeless, and others who won't be missed, but will take what he can get. With his preternatural strength, he can travel further and faster than anyone would expect during his nocturnal excursions.*How will the PCs bring the brother down? Can the infestation be eradicated, or is he a dead man walking? And how will their friend feel about learning the truth?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (MN) innocent, investigative, madness, monster, relationship hook, sandbox, villain==Kiss of the Black Widow*When a man's brother is killed by a car bomb, the man goes into shock and soon enters a near-comatose state. The PCs know both men; the surviving brother works for the local bomb squad. Federal investigators suspect the bomb technician, but the local police refuse to consider him a suspect. Both investigations are at a standstill as the two sides butt heads. The media are dwelling on the story, and local cops are losing morale.*The brother's new girlfriend is desperate for assistance, and asks the PCs to investigate. She believes that because of the connection between the killing and her boyfriend's line of work, someone is trying to take revenge on him. The PCs agree to help her.*The new girlfriend is a succubus, a seductive demon. Her kiss lets her compel people to do almost anything. The degree of compulsion depends on the amount of kissing; a quick smooch is good for a few hours. It fades over time, but those compelled try to justify their actions after the fact.*The succubus has charmed one brother to kill the other, the doctor to keep him sedated, the cops and feds to interfere with each other, and the local news to clamor for a resolution. She revels in the chaos she's created, and now seeks to involve the    PCs.*She will attempt to give a PC a hug and a kiss for helping out, and whisper her compulsion in his or her ear, "Aggressively confront the Feds. They know more than they're saying."*Confronted, the federal agents will arrest and question the PCs. They'll notice the succubus' picture on the desk of one of the officers in charge. As the PCs investigate, they also find her picture at the dead brother's house, at the doctor's office, and on the desks and walls of a few cops and reporters. Demons don't sleep, so she visits many of them regularly.*When the PCs start to catch on, the succubus first sends cops to arrest them, then thugs to kill them. She'll also try to kill the brother and the doctor before they can talk. Cornered, she's a competent fighter, but will use her compulsion powers first.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) alliance, betrayal, city, intrigue, investigative, madness, monster, relationship hook, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, villain==The Pack*Three werewolves lay claim to a vast stretch of wilderness. They use unmapped roads to capture unsuspecting travelers, and then play a game with them, awarding points to each other for winning competitions that involve their victims. The hook for this plot is that the PCs enter the werewolves' territory. Once the werewolves are aware of the PCs' presence, they begin their game using the PCs as the prizes.*The first competition is for the werewolves to take a lock of hair from one of the PCs while in human form. The goal is to scare the party, so the werewolves don't simply ask for the hair. They attack the PCs if needed, but their intention is to cause panic and confusion amongst the PCs.*The second competition is to maim one of the PCs through a vicious attack in wolf form. The werewolves appear as large wolves, and they attempt to tear a body part off of a PC.*The final competition occurs under the full moon, and the werewolves compete for kills. The werewolf with the most PC kills is the winner. During this final competition, the werewolves attack in werewolf form. Their large, savage forms are monstrous and horrifying.*The werewolves consider the PCs nothing more than playthings. If the PCs severely injure a werewolf, the pack targets that PC for a special game during the next round of the competition. If the PCs kill a werewolf, the remaining pack members recover the body and retreat. They throw aside the competition and return later that evening in werewolf form to take revenge on the party.*You can increase the number of werewolves as needed to keep the PCs overwhelmed. The competing werewolves also may not be the only werewolves in the area. The horror element of this plot isn't the werewolves so much as the sensation of being hunted while in unfamiliar territory, and knowing that something could always be lurking in the woods, just out of sight.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (PB) exploration, isolated area, monster, tactical planning*Murderous Adultery==Devotion*A coven of three witches has been meeting secretly and  casting spells on innocent people. The witches look like normal people and hide in plain sight. A local gentleman unknowingly romanced one of the witches, and she hid this forbidden relationship from the rest of her coven. The gentleman discovered the secret of the coven, though, and stole an artifact from his lover as proof of the coven's evil deeds. The gentleman is looking for help to stop the coven, but his lover has already confessed the relationship to her sisters. The coven now wants the artifact returned to them, and anyone who knows their secret must die.*Hooks for this plot include one of the PCs being the gentleman, being approached by the gentleman for help, or witnessing the coven using spells to murder someone. After the PCs catch the coven's eye, they meet them face-to-face. In the first encounter in this adventure, each witch is carrying a bottle of black ink that she spills upon the ground before her. Each witch then manipulates the ink with her fingers, and the shadows come to life as dark, smoky monsters that attack the PCs. The coven doesn't stop the attack unless one of its members is injured or the PCs flee. Somehow, the PCs should wind up with the artifact before the encounter ends.*In the next encounter, the witches stage an attack on a person or group of people dear to the PCs in an attempt to lure them into a trap. The coven summons a swarm of rats that viciously attacks the PCs' loved ones. Each witch cuts her palm and smears blood on a photo or some other representation of the target; this causes the rats to then crave his or her flesh. The massive swarm can pick person's bones clean in a matter of moments.*The final encounter is related to the artifact. The PCs discover that the artifact binds a demon to the coven, granting them much of their power. Once they make this discovery, the coven appears and a final confrontation ensues. Destroying the artifact results in the demon appearing and wiping out the coven, along with anyone else that doesn't flee in short order, and this is the best way to defeat the witches.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural*Tags: (PB) bearers, innocent, investigative, magic, relationship hook, spirit, villain==Kiss and Kill*A motel owner asks for help with a haunting. Every now  and then, someone in room 406 reports something strange, like a woman's face in the mirror, a presence in the room, or even a voice telling them to leave. Last night a couple left in the middle of the night. They both looked like they'd been beaten up, but they wouldn't answer any questions or even wait for a refund.*The room is haunted by the spirit of a woman caught cheating by her husband. She and her lover were in room 406 exactly one year ago. Her husband found out, broke in while she was out, killed the other man, and waited for her to return. When she did, he beat her to death over the course of several hours. He left the guy's body in the room, but buried hers in an unmarked grave. Because she wasn't laid to rest properly and is fraught with guilt, her spirit is trying to prevent others from suffering the same fate by attacking adulterers.*The motel owner has the credit card information of the man who last paid for a night in the room, one member of the injured couple. Once the PCs accomplish the difficult task of gaining his confidence, he describes a crazy woman who broke into the room, screaming "Stop! Don't do it!" He didn't get a good look at her.*Any unmarried couple in room 406 will draw the spirit's attention. She won't attack until the room is dark, and her aim isn't to kill but simply to stop any adultery. If a light is switched on during her attack, the spirit is visible as an attractive but badly beaten woman in a bikini, who disappears a moment later. She can be identified through missing persons reports. Her husband, now a wealthy bachelor, has an airtight alibi and refuses to talk about her. He'll hire someone to kill the PCs if they mention the hotel or get too close to the truth.*One possible resolution is to tempt the spirit's murderous husband into meeting a married woman at the motel, in which case the spirit will exact revenge and then disappear. Another is to get him to confess where he buried the body so that it can be properly laid to rest.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) investigative, social, spirit, villain==Phantom Ware*Office relationships can become complicated, especially when they conflict with existing ones. This was the case a few weeks ago when an office tryst resulted in a man sabotaging his wife's computer; the next time she turned it on, it would electrocute her. His plan worked, eliminating the barrier to his office fling, but it set fire to their house, which burned to the ground. Now the computer network at his office is possessed with the spirit of his murdered wife, trying to expose his infidelity and his crime from beyond the grave.*The PCs can become involved when the adulterer hires them to figure out what's going on, or when they're brought in to investigate the strange phenomena in the office. They may also decide to investigate because of a connection to the murdered wife.*The computers on the office network appear to have a virus. Emails and instant messages, especially embarrassing or incriminating ones, are sometimes randomly sent to the wrong recipient. Sounds of moaning or screaming sometimes issue faintly from speakers and the shared printer, and ghostly images and videos of graphic sex or smoldering corpses sometimes flash on nearby monitors, visible out of the corner of one's eye.*After hours, when the machines are powered down and the lights off, the ghostly manifestations become stronger. The images and sounds persist despite the computers being off and machines randomly start, run programs on their own, then shut down again. This is especially disturbing in the IT area where unplugged and even non-functional machines exhibit the same symptoms. Late night workers have even reported a blackened figure surrounded by a gentle flickering luminescence seen walking among the cubicles.*The burned-out house where the woman was murdered is haunted as well, but with no surviving electronics, the haunting is less readily apparent. With careful listening, the PCs may hear sounds from under some of the ash. Digging through the wreckage will reveal a shattered and half-melted monitor playing a pornographic film that winks off as soon as it's uncovered.*At the house where her husband is staying with his new lover, the haunting is more subtle, but includes phantom scorch marks on electronic devices and other objects. In addition, the blackened figure often hovers near the bed while the adulterers sleep.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) betrayal, city, innocent, investigative, mature themes, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, spirit==Deadly Dalliance*In the old Greek myths, some of the gods committed  adultery with mortals. Such mortals aroused the ire of the affected godly spouses. While not many believe in the old gods anymore, they still exist and are just as frisky as they were in the past. Today, one of the gods has chosen a mortal and has taken on a human form to woo him. She uses the traditional method of assuming the shape of the mortal's wife and dallying with him while her agents keep the true wife occupied.*Unfortunately for the object of the god's desire, her spouse doesn't care about the particulars and has decided to make life a living hell for him. He uses his traditional powers to inflict harm: Zeus might throw thunderbolts to destroy cars or create fires, Eros might make his wife fall in love with someone else, and Neptune might send a horde of lobsters to terrorize him.*These acts increase in intensity over time. In addition, the mortal or spouse has discovered strange inconsistencies in their relationship. A neighbor may have spotted the god and mistaken her for the spouse, who was away from home at the time. The mortal may discover that his wife doesn't seem to remember certain dalliances (if you want an extra complication, the spouse may be cheating on her husband and is actually thankful for his confusion).*In either case, the mortal or spouse wants answers. The PCs have to figure out what's going on, which gods are involved, and how to placate them before their anger turns to murder. Some of this can be researched in musty old tomes or online, while the rest has to be accomplished through old fashioned legwork.*The dallying god isn't pleased with the PCs' interference and uses her powers to dissuade them. This, ironically, might give them more information as to who the offending god is, but it proves of little use if the god is angry enough to send minions to kill them.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) deadline, epic challenge, innocent, investigative, religion, social, spirit, villain==What Are Those Knives For, Dear?*One of the PCs' friends is cheating on her husband with another married man, and that man's wife knows about the affair. Rather than simply expose their adultery, the wife has decided to get even by killing the PCs' friend. (Depending on your group, you can also make a PC the center of the plot, with that character's spouse cheating on him.) While out with the PCs, their friend narrowly escapes death by way of a pipe bomb under her car. She cannot imagine why anyone would want to kill her.*There are no prints or traceable materials, so the bomb itself reveals no clues as to the attacker's identity, but now the party's guard is up. While they try to figure out what's going on, the angry wife has changed tactics: Having recently discovered the occult, she resolves to go after the PCs' friend with magic. Her second assassination attempt is more subtle: She causes a car accident, again involving one or more of the PCs-and it's clear to the PCs that magic is involved.*Remembering that her lover's wife had an interest in the occult, the NPC now confesses her adultery to the PCs, and suggests that the jilted wife might be the one trying to kill her. When the PCs visit the jilted woman's house, they surprise her there; a chase ensues, with the angry wife using magic to get away.*While the PCs' friend is resolving the fallout from her affair, the PCs must track down the jilted wife before she kills them all. This portion of the adventure is freeform: The party's plan will drive the action, and the angry wife will respond or take action herself depending on what they do. She has a natural gift for magic, but lacks discipline. While her power has grown by leaps and bounds, she has trouble controlling it, making her incredibly dangerous to anyone around her.*While she'll go after the PCs with gusto, her ultimate aim never changes: She wants to see the PCs' friend dead, and will stop at nothing to kill her. The climax of this adventure comes when the angry wife, having avoided capture, makes an all-out attempt to kill the PCs' friend while in a public location. The PCs must protect their friend (and possibly her family, too), as well as innocent bystanders, all while dealing with the angry, powerful wife-and depending on your campaign world, attempting to keep the use of magic secret in the process.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) innocent, magic, relationship hook, sandbox, social, villain*Madness==I Dream of Squirrels*One of the PCs' enemies, fearing her dangerous and skilled foes, seeks out an unusual edge to deal with them: She communes with local squirrels. The ritual goes terribly wrong, and instead of gaining allies she becomes the nexus of a city-wide squirrel hive mind. But they're only squirrels-how bad could that be? This adventure is best played out in the background of another scenario, coming into the foreground when the party has realized the true magnitude of the squirrel threat.*The PCs should have several odd encounters with squirrels. A squirrel leaps into the spokes of a bicycle wheel, upending a PC or causing a traffic accident that includes the PCs' vehicle. Later, eerie, pupil-less black eyes stare down at the PCs from telephone lines wherever they go, and squirrels chatter loudly whenever the PCs desire silence (while breaking and entering, for example). The PCs find squirrels gnawing on the body of a dead NPC friend of theirs, and while they stare in horror a squirrel emerges from the NPC's chest cavity, scattering entrails as it flees. They may also encounter squirrels that chew through electrical lines, causing shorts and plunging the street into darkness at exactly the wrong time for the PCs.*To stop the squirrels from ruining their lives, the PCs must find the source of the hive mind: their unseen enemy. She's still alive, but her unconscious body is hidden in a local park, dragged there by the squirrels after the ritual went awry. The effects of the drugs and the magic that she used to perform the ritual still linger, though time and psychiatric care can restore her to lucidity-which will also dismantle the hive mind, returning the squirrels to normal.*If the PCs simply kill her, they will succeed only in destroying her body. Her spirit will continue to link the city's squirrels, and their malign influence will only grow stronger as the hive mind incorporates squirrels from ever further away to torment her foes.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (SM) city, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, monster, relationship hook, twist, villain==Slasher Film*Each PC should adopt one of several high school  archetypes (cheerleader, athlete, goth, preppie, burner, prom queen, chess club geek, etc.) as they set off on a senior trip into the remote woodlands with two chaperones.*Reinforce the clich by having the chaperones tell the PCs stories of a chainsaw-wielding, hockey-masked madman with a hooked right hand who prowls the area. Their campsite includes a tent area, a deserted house in a secluded valley, a thickly wooded area, and a pond with a nearby cave.*Have fun roleplaying as they explore these locales, and be sure to include in each location a thing the PCs might identify as a hiding place or a future improvised weapon. Once the setting is established, the madman-who really exists-slashes their tires, disabling their transportation.*Pairs of PCs are then placed at one of the encounter sites in a manner to be determined randomly. In succession, each pair faces off against the aforementioned NPC madman. The encounter is resolved if the PC successfully flees the site, the madman is killed, or the PC dies.*The surviving PCs then meet in the center of the camp for a final showdown against the madman. It doesn't matter how many times the madman is killed-he somehow keeps coming back for more. (He may show the effects of some of the previous battles, however.) Give the PCs time to organize a defense or attempt an escape. At the most opportune moment, and when one character is the most vulnerable, have the madman assault the survivors.*In this final battle, either the PCs slay the madman for good or the massacre continues until only one PC is left standing. At that point, the madman inexplicably calls off the assault and lets the last PC live, just like in the movies.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) combat-heavy, deadline, epic challenge, exploration, innocent, isolated area, madness, monster, siege, stealth, tactical planning, travel, villain==A Fate Worse than Death*A little knowledge can be a dangerous thing. Such is the  case with a scientist whose experiments into perceiving "higher dimensions" have led him to believe that something horrible is coming to the world, and soon. This knowledge snapped his mind and he decided to save his family and loved ones from such a fate by murdering them.*The scientist won't use violent methods, of course. He relies on drugs to incapacitate and kill his prey. In his mind, it's better to give them a peaceful death now than condemn them to a life of horror. What he hasn't realized is that he's the cause of the "end of the world." He has punched a hole into the upper dimensions and has not closed it. While the scientist is killing his family and friends, abominable horrors are slipping through the hole and terrorizing the university grounds in which the laboratory is located.*The PCs could come into this in one of three ways. They might be called in to track down the murders, piecing together the scientist as a common connection. They may be called to the university to hunt the horrors terrorizing the faculty and students, or they might work for or attend the university and be attacked themselves. In any case, the PCs have to track down the scientist and convince him to close the rift or, failing that, give them the information that they need to do it themselves.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) innocent, intrigue, investigative, madness, monster, sandbox, social, villain==Committed*The PCs are visiting, employed by, or are residents of a local asylum for the mentally disturbed. The residents range from harmless people who are being treated for manageable diseases to violent individuals who must be kept restrained and separated from others. One of these residents has somehow come into possession of a book of spells and ancient rituals. That resident is now the focal point for a reality-warping evil, and this evil is causing the madness of others to take physical form.*The first encounter takes place in the general activities section where the residents meet with visitors, watch television, and participate in various activities. The phobias of two residents take physical form. The first resident suffers from arachnophobia and is suddenly covered in spiders. The other resident suffers from hydrophobia and drowns as a geyser of water spews forth from his mouth. Eventually the two forms of madness merge into a single water elemental with the form of a giant spider.*The next encounter takes place in the cafeteria, where a resident suffering from paranoid delusions claims that "they" are after him. The problem is that there really is a trio of shadowy stalkers that can appear at will, attack, and then vanish immediately. These beings will use large butcher knives to stab their victims.*The final encounter is with the resident who holds the book of spells. This resident's madness is particularly disturbing, because the resident believes that he is the Devil incarnate. The resident summons forth swarms of locusts to devour people alive, causes bleeding sores to appear on anyone he chooses, and merges the remains of the dead into hideous creatures. How or even if the resident can be stopped is up to you.*You're encouraged to create more encounters based upon mental illnesses and to blend these forms of madness when possible. In a one-shot, these encounters can be death traps, intended to kill one PC per encounter unless your players-who should be sweating bullets-get extremely creative.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) innocent, investigative, isolated area, madness, magic, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, stealth, villain==The Fear of Beautiful Women*A mad serial killer stalks the city streets. This poor wretch's  wife was a member of a mystery cult which promises its members eternal beauty but instead transforms them into succubi. After discovering their secret and losing his mind, he now hunts anyone he suspects to be a member of the cult, gutting them to steal the magic gems they've each swallowed to effect the transformation. The city's elite have been whipped into frenzy by his actions, posting rewards, hiring their own investigators, and consulting experts of all kinds.*Searching for clues, the PCs hear a muffled scream and arrive in time to find a disheveled young man kneeling over a fresh corpse, his hand wrist-deep in her guts. Giving chase, they discover the man has stamina borne of insanity and is familiar with bolt holes and back alleys. If they fail to overtake him quickly, they'll lose his trail.*Now possessing a description, the PCs can begin their search for the young man. They find him sleeping in a pile of garbage in an alley. He'll try to flee and will fight only if cornered, focusing on any attractive female PCs. Subdued, he sobs, struggles, and begs to be let go. He carries with him only a knife, a garrote, a weather-stained diary containing his strange story, a pencil, and a pouch containing a half-dozen emeralds the size of robin eggs.*If the PCs choose to, they can investigate the mystery cult. Its members are all wealthy women and are all stunningly attractive. The cult does practice a ritual in which its members swallow small gems like the ones the madman harvested. Investigating the high priestess reveals that she keeps odd hours and company. She is in fact a vampire sorceress who magically prepares the gems her followers swallow to make them more susceptible to demonic possession.*The vampire is very powerful, is an accomplished sorceress, and always has demon minions and allies near. Confronting her requires a carefully researched and well-prepared plan. If the PCs allow the madman to assist them in this confrontation, he will be hard to control, but will launch himself at the vampire with insane ferocity.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, city, difficult choice, investigative, madness, monster, race, tactical planning, twist, villain==Welcome Home*Modern-day PCs take a bet to spend a night in an  abandoned insane asylum, and awaken as asylum inmates in the 19th century. During the day, they're beaten, drugged, and prodded with sticks by onlookers. At night, after the sedatives are injected, they're free to roam the moonlit modern-day version of the asylum, but in 19th century garb. It's impossible to leave; anyone attempting to do so is suddenly and crushingly terrified of "something out there."*The asylum is huge, with multiple basement levels. Occasionally a little girl's voice is heard, singing quietly. Rarely, her screams ring out from the basement. The first night, the PCs may find the makings of torches. The basement of the asylum is frightening, and the PCs feel as if something lurks just out of sight.*During the day, the PCs can try to hide things for their future selves, though some items won't make the transition. The second night, the PCs will wake to an image of a young girl clutching a ragged cloth doll, staring out the window in abject terror. She will almost immediately disappear. The PCs can find the head and one leg of the doll.*The third day, the girl from the previous night arrives at the asylum. She's in a fetal position, clutching her doll, staring off in the distance, moaning and saying, "It's going to get me." A patient pulls the doll from her grasp, tearing it limb from limb. The girl fights back violently, but the orderlies brutally restrain her, taking her to the basement. She isn't seen again that day.*The third night, the PCs can find the rest of the doll; its torso is in the lowest basement. If they can find a needle and thread, it can be sewn back together. The doll will transition with the PCs if it is made whole.*The third day repeats itself until the PCs have the doll. They see the girl, curled up in a fetal position, rocking and moaning to herself. If the PCs give her the doll, she hugs it tightly, and the world shifts back to the present day. The little girl stands up, her cuts and bruises healed. She will curtsey and walk out the front door into a blindingly bright light. As the PCs' vision returns, they see that it's morning outside and all of their possessions are stacked neatly beside them.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) dungeon crawl, exploration, innocent, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, madness, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, spirit, twist*Fatal Imprudence==Lover's Leap*A woman has come across a potent artifact that compels  anyone she wishes to fall madly in love with her. Unfortunately, if she rejects the lover, he commits suicide. The woman is just as much a victim of the artifact's evil influence-she has become a siren, luring men to their deaths. She only engages in short-term relationships and ultimately rejects them all. A side effect of this is that while she enjoys all the attention, she fails to see that she is the cause of the suicides.*The first victim is a man who is dating a rival that previously insulted the siren. While the man was perfectly happy and committed to his girlfriend, he dropped her like a hot potato when the siren beckoned him. She played with him until the girlfriend angrily left him, and then she dumped him. Later, the man intentionally crashed his car, killing himself.*The second victim is a man that the siren had desired for quite some time. Unfortunately, she no sooner had him then she discovered that she didn't care for him. He turned out to be a jerk, gay, or just not her type-the artifact makes men fall in love, but doesn't change anything else about them. She dumped him, and he went home and shot himself.*The third victim is a bouncer at an exclusive club. The siren flirts with him to get inside, but then rejects his further advances. He climbs to the roof of the club, ties a noose around his neck, and hangs himself.*The PCs can get involved any time after the first suicide. Perhaps they're investigators, or one of them is the siren's latest infatuation. Can they discover what the artifact is and destroy it before it claims another victim? Is there a reason why the artifact is taking victims? Is there a way to break the curse once caught up in it?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) innocent, investigative, magic, sandbox==A Step in the Wrong Direction*Since the 1930s, groups of children have been disappearing  from local orphanages and hospitals every few years. The disappearances stop after a few weeks and are usually forgotten. No one has linked them to a rag-covered homeless man who wanders the city, a monster who feeds on children to sustain himself.*The latest disappearance is reported in the news: "2 Children Found Missing from St. Anthony's!" The monster hasn't been thorough about covering its tracks this cycle. Nurses who've worked at the hospital for a long time remember seeing him picking through the garbage and recall the strong smell coming from the back steps. They comment that it reminds them of the previous incidents. A crazy homeless woman says the steps themselves talk about the actions of the creature. She screams in panic every time the "man with the second face" is in the vicinity.*Research at the municipal library reveals that the disappearances all occur near a bridge that runs over the sewage treatment plant. If avenues of mystical research are available to the PCs, they may discover that the creature hibernates for long periods and likes damp places.*While investigating, the PCs are discovered by the monster. It leaves dead animals or bloody knives in their dwellings, trying to scare them off. It might even throw chunks of rubble at them from the tops of abandoned buildings, only to disappear once the PCs get up there. The creature is skittish and if encountered in a place where it can run, like a back alley or in the sewage tunnels it sometimes uses to travel, it will. The creature has been alive for many years and survival is uppermost in its mind. It knows many secret ways through the city and can easily lose pursuers once or twice, but eventually panics and heads for its nest under the bridge.*If encountered early in the adventure, it will still feed at least once a night out of necessity. Once cornered, it will fight. The rags make it hard to target its spindly body, while its clawed hands cause minor but irritating wounds. The creature jumps around and walks on walls and ceilings, throwing things and staying out of range. Killing it breaks the cycle.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) city, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, monster, race, villain==Power Gamer*Football players at a local high school have been suffering fatal accidents at an alarming rate. One drowned when his truck ran off the road into a creek. A few days later, the quarterback fell off a tractor and plowed himself into a wheat field. The latest was working on his car when it fell off the jacks and crushed him.*A nerdy gamer found a real spell in one of his gaming books, and has been killing off the jocks who pick on him. The gamer needs to be present to perform the spell, which is telekinetic in nature, and he was at the scene of all three accidents. Investigation may turn up his presence at the crimes or his absence from his home and the local gaming store.*The obvious beneficiary of the deaths is the new quarterback, who was home alone and doesn't have much of an alibi. He's scared and defensive, and will aggressively threaten or even attack any investigators.*Then the captain of the cheerleading squad dies in public. The cheerleaders are making a memorial for the football players during a free period, and the captain runs out to get the scissors. A door blows open, drawing everyone's attention. As the captain runs back with the scissors, she falls as if pushed and lands on the hand holding the scissors. The PCs are present and observe the gamer making weird little hand movements, then quickly walking away.*The PCs know that the three dead football players mercilessly picked on the gamer. They also know that the gamer and a cheerleader were once good friends. They may even know or suspect that he secretly harbors a crush on her. The gamer will deny everything, but will use his spell to get away from the PCs if they get confrontational.*At the captain's funeral, or shortly afterwards if he was chased off, the gamer tries to convince "his girl" to forget about the other cheerleaders. She says no, and he makes a scene. If the PCs don't confront the gamer here, he will go after her as she drives off.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) innocent, investigative, magic, social, villain==The Bleeding Edge*Diseases of the autoimmune system are common and often deadly. A doctor has discovered a treatment that first weakens, then strengthens, a patient's immune system in order to cure these types of disease. The doctor's tests with laboratory animals showed promise, and the doctor has just received permission to begin trials on human patients. Hooks for this plot include being a part of the doctor's research team, being a friend or relative of someone participating in the treatment trial, or being a member of the hospital staff.*The first group of trial patients becomes ill after receiving the treatment. The doctor expected this, but soon the symptoms worsen. The patients begin vomiting blood, and an hour or two later they transform into zombies with a craving for flesh. Any creature killed by a zombie immediately rises as another zombie. This is the first encounter of what will become a pandemic, during which the zombies overrun one ward of the hospital.*The next encounter involves an attempt by local police and rescue services to contain the threat and treat the injured. The battle has overflowed from the ward and spread to the entire hospital. Many patients are helpless, and the zombies slaughter them without mercy. During this second wave of the pandemic, any person who kills a zombie in combat has a small chance of becoming infected. This encounter ends with the zombies overrunning the entire hospital and spreading     into the city.*The next encounter is a citywide crisis as the zombies spread quickly from the hospital into nearby neighborhoods. During this third wave of the pandemic, the chance of infection after killing a zombie increases. Various buildings are on fire as people attempt to defend themselves with whatever is available. At some point, a large vehicle loses control and hurtles straight towards the PCs. If the PCs escape the accident, the military picks them up and takes them to a quarantine center.*At the quarantine center, the PCs receive treatment for their wounds. The odds of infection if a person kills a zombie in combat also increase again. Keep increasing the chance for infection with each subsequent encounter. Whether there's a cure for the pandemic is up to you; if not, this makes an excellent introduction to a zombie-themed campaign.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) alliance, city, combat-heavy, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, mass combat, monster, relationship hook, sandbox, siege, tactical planning==Principal Penitence*The principal of the local boarding school is a bright, starched, and stern young woman, with eyes black as night. Her charges do well academically, but are cowed by her. Students who act up disappear for a few days, but always return docile and calm, and never speak of their time away. Their few quiet confidences sound crazy and are quickly stifled.*Several hooligans kidnap the principal's cat and shave it bald. The PCs could be among them (and this is a fun encounter for them to play out), they could be from a rival clique, or they might simply hear the sound of clippers from within a nearby bathroom. The next day, at a school assembly, the principal announces that she has found her cat, and the glare she gives the hooligans is so fierce that they flee the assembly. They hide out in an abandoned house in town and plan to run away from the school, knowing that they dare not face the principal.*That evening, the principal tracks them down-flanked by strange clockwork men, the stuff of nightmares. Restrained by the automatons' heavy brass hands, the prisoners are returned to the school. The PCs are in a position to observe their arrival, and they watch as the entire group heads into the gymnasium. The principal reads strange words from a sheet of parchment, her voice raspy, and small cracks in the wall flow together and form a dark tunnel in one of the gym's walls, revealing a shadowy path beyond. The cog men lead the prisoners to strange and starless cells at the end of the pathway.*The PCs must rescue the imprisoned hooligans and then decide what to do about the principal. She stores the parchment in her locked desk drawer; the passage can only be opened in the gymnasium. Beyond the wall, the cog men watch their prisoners tirelessly, but they're devoid of true intelligence or creativity and can be tricked into abandoning their posts. Once rescued, the hooligans won't be safe at the school, and neither will the PCs. The principal knows when the doorway has been opened, and will try to stop them from fleeing the grounds.*If they can convince the school board to dismiss the principal, they'll be safe for a time, but eventually she will re-enter their lives.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (SM) alliance, artificial life form, dungeon crawl, innocent, isolated area, magic, rebellion, relationship hook, stealth, villain==Devil's Feast*Recently, several people in a frontier community have  been torn apart in what appear to be wild animal attacks. Careful examination of the evidence indicates an intelligent attacker, however, as several victims were found barricaded inside rooms with discharged firearms. Only those participating in the investigation, and one resident who refuses to evacuate, remain.*The killer is neither man nor beast, but an ancient vampire, released when one of the locals started construction on a new well. After spending so long sealed away, she is completely feral, but she's still a deadly predator with the ability to turn into mist and get at victims wherever they hide.*In a freshly dug hole in one house's backyard, the PCs discover a void behind a fractured stone slab. A few hours' work will reveal a cave system connecting to a nearby hilltop burial cairn; it's sealed with rune-carved boulders, and houses the ancient bones of dead native inhabitants of the area. The cave network is littered with the pierced and mummified corpses of bats and other small subterranean animals. In the deepest part of the caves is a nest made of gnawed bones and a stench the PCs recognize from some of the murder scenes.*During a nighttime search with the authorities, noises and flashes of movement are a prelude to an NPC being hauled up into a tree and carried off at great speed. If the PCs manage to shoot the fleeing creature, they can save the life of the NPC, who can then provide a description of the vampire. Otherwise, they might get a glimpse as it flees, and they'll be able to find the NPC's shredded body on the roof of a shed in the morning.*Several nights later, gunshots are heard from the remaining resident's home. As the PCs enter the house, they hear a smashing window and find the resident, a great bear of a man, drenched in blood and clutching his neck. He shot an intruder, but when he checked the woman's wrist for a pulse, she pounced on him and tore at his neck. He managed to get a grip on her and fling her through the window before she hurt him too badly. Without prompt medical attention, he will become a vampire by the next night.*The vampire can be destroyed by traditional methods, but can also be repelled by the runic markings found on the cairn, which may help defeat or trap her.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (MN) alliance, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, investigative, isolated area, madness, monster, race, sandbox, tactical planning, villain==Long Voyage*Perhaps the voyage across open water was ill-advised, but haste or other circumstances compelled the PCs to undertake a long, perilous journey. Someone on board possesses a cursed item, a tobacco pipe decorated in fanciful mermaids. The pipe calls to an ancient spirit of the sea, a calling that will churn the seas, summon storms, and embolden monsters of the deep to attack.*The first sign that something is wrong is that the ship becomes becalmed, or if mechanically propelled, the engine fails. Then the PCs hear the mermaid's call. They may even see a creature resembling a mermaid of legend swimming near the ship. Anyone who leaves the ship, such as someone enchanted by the mermaid's song, is immediately surrounded by a school of sharks. The tentacles of a giant squid or octopus attempt to snatch victims from the deck and pull them under.*Wet footprints are found on deck, made by a fish-man scouting party that performed a quick survey of the ship, then dived back into the water. There's a report of flooding in the lower decks (fish-men punctured the hull). The leak is slow and repairable, but patching it prompts the fish-men to attack. They stage a full assault and fight their way to the cursed pipe, intending to take it back to their undersea realm.*Only the return of the item to the sea lifts the curse and ends the assault. If the PCs determine the cause early on, have the item's possessor refuse to give it up-after all, it would be foolish to think this object is the cause for their becalming, the presence of sharks, or even watery footprints, wouldn't it?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) bearers, investigative, magic, monster, shady, stealth, trade, travel*Involuntary Crimes of Love==Uncle*A succubus has taken the form of a young girl and uses her  mesmerizing power to seduce men into bringing her gifts and visiting with her so she can drain their souls. She spends most of her time in an abandoned house, only leaving to recruit more men to play with. She discards those with nothing left to offer. Her powers allow her to convince anyone inclined to ask questions that nothing is amiss.*The PCs are called by an acquaintance that lives across the street from the succubus. She's concerned by her invalid, shut-in mother's unhealthy fascination with her young neighbor. Having exhausted medical solutions, she hopes the PCs can find an answer.*Unable to get in range of the succubus' powers, the mother sees her as a little girl who lives alone, never goes to school, and who entertains strings of adult men. The daughter, however, sees the succubus several times a day and, after repeatedly being brainwashed that everything is fine, no longer questions it. While speaking with both of them, the PCs may realize that the daughter has been the victim of mental conditioning.*The succubus is aware of her voyeur, and often spends idle afternoons tormenting her. Thus, new spectators will put her on guard. Once she sees the PCs are watching her as well, she drops by for a visit and uses her mental power to convince the PCs her lifestyle is normal.*If the PCs persist, she's likely to convince a few of her less useful playmates to rough them up. They won't be particularly subtle, but will try to corner the party in an alley or somewhere else that's fairly isolated.*Breaking into the house while the succubus is out confirms suspicions that she's the only resident and doesn't lead a normal life. Few rooms are in livable condition. Piles of gifts lay discarded in unused rooms, and there's nothing to eat but the sweets gifted to her.*If the PCs wait for the succubus in her house, or force their way inside while she's there, she'll try to mesmerize the toughest looking one before attacking them. During the fight, she may change into horrifying or seductive forms to unnerve the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) combat-heavy, investigative, madness, mature themes, monster, relationship hook, shady, social, villain==True Love*A friend comes to the PCs to explain that he has found his soul mate and is head-over-heels in love. Initially, there should be nothing suspicious about or amiss with the match. However, the love interest is actually a demon in disguise that grows stronger as its paramour suffers in the name of love.*Misfortune befalls the friend in increments. First, he loses his job. Then he breaks an arm falling from a ladder. Next, hooligans mug him walking home. Each time, he's accompanied by the demon, but any misfortune spares her.*Over time, the demon remains steadfast and true even though the friend suffers ever greater disasters: disfigurement, accusations of wrongdoing, affliction with disease. The friend's descent into this personal hell can only be stopped if the true nature of his love is revealed directly to him. It's possible that the demon will take the PCs aside and reveal its true nature to them-a taunt to dare them to action, knowing the friend will never believe such an outlandish tale.*This requires the PCs to mount an investigation into possession or the nature of demons. Of course, the demon is watching the PCs. If they make an attempt at research, such as visiting an old library or consulting with an expert in the occult, the demon sends its minions to attack.*The next step is discovering the demon's weakness. The demon's bane rests in a forgotten crypt. There the PCs must confront undead guardians to gain the item. Once retrieved, the PCs must return safely with the item.*The demon calls on its allies to retake the bane and return it to its crypt. Cultists of the demon seduce the PCs and attempt to steal it. Decorative gargoyles come to life and assail the PCs. Giant bats invade the PCs' homes and attack them.*Presenting the bane to the demon forces it to reveal its true form but doesn't defeat it. The curse is lifted, but the demon attacks the PCs in retaliation. The PCs must stand firm and defend their friend from the demon's rage.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) innocent, investigative, magic, monster, relationship hook, religion, social, spirit, stealth==Forever Bound*A bored, adulterous vampire enjoys provoking his mate  into a blood frenzy by seducing mortals. The mate is insanely jealous and doesn't stop until she kills the seduced mortal and any witnesses. The hook for this plot is to have the adulterous vampire seduce one of the PCs, or to have a PC's friend brag about having been seduced.*The first encounter takes place at a bar or nightclub. The adulterer approaches the target mortal and seduces her (or him, as the vampire doesn't care about gender or sexuality). The vampire and the target leave the immediate vicinity to consummate their new relationship. When they return, the adulterer has a wicked smile on his face. He frequently looks towards the door or a clock as if expecting someone. A short time later, the mate arrives and angrily confronts the adulterer. The adulterer provokes the mate by snuggling up against the target, and he says something to the effect of, "You're too late, my love. My new playmate already took care of my needs. It was wonderful!"*The mate attacks the target, as well as any mortal that interferes. Both vampires reveal their true nature. As the mate slaughters mortals, the adulterer becomes visibly aroused and attacks the wounded victim to feed. The mate eventually sets the place on fire in an attempt to kill everyone, forcing the PCs to flee.*In the next encounter, the mate becomes a gigantic wolf and chases the PCs. The adulterer reanimates the victims from the first encounter into mindless vampire minions. These minions also pursue the target in order to assist the mate. The minions feed on other mortals that they encounter, and ultimately they force the PCs to enter an abandoned church.*The PCs are then trapped in the church. The vampires cannot enter the church because it is holy ground. The mate circles the church and attempts to grab any person foolish enough to step outside. The adulterer lures the PCs out by mercilessly torturing innocents kidnapped from nearby homes in the middle of the night.*Every encounter in this adventure should be excessively bloody. Only sunrise causes the vampires to leave, at which point the PCs can pursue them and try to wipe them out for good.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) betrayal, city, mature themes, monster, relationship hook, social, spirit, villain==Masked Affair*This isn't a plot per se, but a meta-plot that can overlay a  series of other adventures. A new masked vigilante arrives on the scene and helps one of the PCs thwart a crime. Alternately, the vigilante could actually be a thief or other non-violent criminal who gets caught by the PC. Whatever the case, a romantic spark is kindled during their first meeting, and over time the PC and the NPC flirt regularly and eventually begin a relationship.*One of two things is wrong with this relationship: Either the pair is biologically related (perhaps even siblings), and neither one of them knows it, or the NPC is married and hasn't told the PC about their spouse. How far you let the relationship progress depends upon the nature of their relationship. If they're biologically related, then you'll probably want them to remove their masks before things go too far. If they aren't biologically related-the NPC is actually the spouse of another PC or close friend, for example-then you might allow things to progress to a compromising level.*In addition to the "big reveal," you might want to throw in an extra complication. If the PC and NPC are siblings and the NPC is a criminal, then perhaps their parent is one as well. The parent either reveals his identity to stop the romance or attempts to draft the PC into the family business. In the case of a non-biological affair, a third party might step in and create a compromising position. He might blackmail the PC with the information or kidnap and threaten the NPC. This could cause quite a stir if another PC is wondering why a villain kidnapped her boyfriend in order to threaten the romancing PC.*A word of caution: This plot can get very uncomfortable very quickly depending on your players' maturity level, as well as what they feel is taboo, especially since you effectively guided them into it. Do your best to signpost potential problems before things go too far and disturb one or more of your players.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, twist==Easy Data*Twenty-two years ago, a computer programmer was dumped by his pregnant girlfriend. A bitter drunk at the time, he came into possession of a disk that contained a mysterious encrypted file. Cracking the encryption, he released a demon that had been encoded into the disk. It offered the programmer effective but immoral advice-advice that he's been taking.*The programmer's old girlfriend calls the PCs for assistance. She sees messages everywhere, foretelling pain and death. Supernatural investigation reveals demonic influence. The demon twists written and printed words, so that everything she reads is twisted into vile lies: a thank-you note becomes an angry screed, and the like. She can't imagine why anyone would do this to her.*Her daughter has also recently begun dating someone new, and she finds out that her daughter's boyfriend is actually the programmer-her own father, who left before she was born. Seduced by love notes faked by the demon, the daughter doesn't know she's dating her father, nor does he know that she's his daughter. The notes she received appear as receipts, reports, and other mundane documents to anyone but her. The friend resolves to tell the PCs about this situation.*Prompted by the demon, the programmer anonymously hires thugs to threaten the PCs, break some kneecaps, and end their investigation. They follow the old girlfriend to the PCs and make their threats before she can explain why she's there. If a fight develops, the thugs are aided by the demon, which interferes with the PCs' senses.*Taking the fight to the programmer isn't easy: Street signs and address numbers all change, making it difficult for the PCs to find the right house. The programmer's daughter/girlfriend flees out a back window when the PCs arrive. The programmer fights to defend himself, but is an ordinary 40-year-old with a pistol-the demon is the real danger. The demon will distract the PCs by fooling their senses, trying to make them target each other. Convincing the programmer to explain himself requires a lot of persuasion, and there are many things, like faking the love notes, that the demon did without his knowledge.*If the PCs kill the programmer without dealing with the demon, it will move on to a police investigator when he bags the disk. The demon then fabricates evidence that is damning for the PCs. Breaking the disk frees the demon to infect a nearby hard drive or other device, with similar results. To destroy the demon, the PCs must immerse the disk in holy water-while struggling against the demon's attempts to keep them from doing so.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Romance, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural*Tags: (SM) combat-heavy, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, mature themes, spirit, twist, villain==The Blood Fairy*Every few weeks, a homeless person wakes up with a killer headache, a bump on their head, and a bandage on an arm or leg-as if they've given blood. In their pocket is a bottle of juice and a $50 bill. They may feel weak for a few days, but hey, it's 50 bucks. The homeless have been referring to the phenomenon as "a visit from the blood fairy." Soon, something goes wrong. A homeless woman bleeds to death in an alleyway. There was no juice or money, just a bunch of blood-soaked bandages.*Recently, a woman unwittingly became a vampire. After a long bout of anemia and photophobia, she bit her husband's wrist in the middle of the night, and drank his blood. He put all the clues together and realized that he must take responsibility for getting her blood in order to keep her alive. She remains unaware of her condition and knows only that after her "medicine" she feels much more human.*The husband took a phlebotomy class and found part-time work at the blood bank, but still needs donations from the homeless. He didn't mean to kill anyone, but he accidentally hit an artery on the last "donor," and she turned out to be a hemophiliac.*The husband and wife lead a normal, if nocturnal, lifestyle. The city has 24-hour entertainment, and her need to sleep for 12-15 hours a day lets him keep a busy schedule; he has both a full- and a part-time job, and he keeps her fed. He feels terrible for what he's done, but realizes that without his efforts, his wife would either start killing people of would waste away and die.*As the PCs' investigation begins, they run afoul of a gang that preys on the donors, stealing their money while they're still unconscious. The gang will come back at least once, with reinforcements.*The husband will try to run if confronted, and will go home to defend his wife. She will also defend him if he's threatened. The husband is open to making any deal that keeps his wife alive, if the PCs can come up with a solution.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) city, combat-heavy, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, monster, sandbox, villain*Slaying of a Kinsman Unrecognized==Where Wolf?*For this plot to work, all of the PCs must be members of the same extended family, or be related to a group of investigators from a few generations back.*A werewolf attacks the PCs, but it's old and weak and the PCs dispose of it handily. As it dies, it changes into an elderly relative of the PCs, and his last words are "I am free of the curse, and now one of you must bear it."*The next day, a phone call from a family patriarch reveals that the curse has been in the family since some of its members ransacked a Transylvanian church in 1920s, taking several precious artifacts with them. When the werewolf dies, the curse is passed to another family member. The victim becomes a werewolf on full-moon nights, but isn't aware of the curse and remembers nothing of the experience. The werewolf is extremely clever, and has rarely been caught.*What the PCs don't know is that the curse works on nights when the moon is at least 95% full (about 3-4 nights of a lunar cycle; see a moon phase calendar for details). The werewolf is extremely strong and fast in any of its three shapes: human, half-wolf, or wolf. The werewolf has the victim's intelligence and knowledge. Silver weapons are more powerful against it, but aren't required to kill it. The curse doesn't necessarily affect someone in close proximity. This time around, the curse is passed on to a distant NPC.*Last night was the first night of the full moon and there are two more in this cycle. The family has about 20 members, all of whom suspect the PCs and each other. The first night, the werewolf will avoid the traps it knows of and look out for any it suspects. It will kill if it can, but will first try to scout around, find out where the PCs are, and avoid being caught. The second night, the werewolf will go after the PCs with a vengeance.*If the werewolf is captured, the curse can be removed by returning the remaining artifacts to the Transylvanian church, along with making a very substantial donation.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) bearers, innocent, investigative, madness, monster, race, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, tactical planning, villain==Defiling the Ancestral Manse*A friend or relative of the PCs approaches them for help:  His parents recently died, leaving his slightly deranged older brother alone in the ancestral manse, and strange things are afoot. The house was willed to the PCs' friend, and he's reluctant to put his brother in a care facility. If the PCs can just help him make sense of what is happening, he hopes to be able to live in the house with his brother and care for him directly.*When the PCs come out to the house to stay with him for a few days, he shows them spoor and other signs of animals living on the grounds. While the tracks are rat-like, they're much larger than normal, and their nails are in the wrong places; they also appear to shift from quadrupedal to bipedal motion mid-stride. He has set out traps, and when checked they contain what looks like bits of rat, but no whole corpses. The PCs also meet the brother, who's a mess: He's twitchy, has wandering eyes, and communicates using grunts instead of speech, making him quite a creepy figure.*Their first night is unsettling, with strange noises heard throughout the house. When they roam the halls, they find the brother missing from his room. The friend comes running up to the PCs and says he thinks he's seen one of the animals. He asks for their help trapping it. When they catch it-killing it in the process-it turns out to be a rat the size of a small dog, with peculiarly human-like forepaws and hind legs.*The next day, the rat-creatures attack the house en masse. They go for the PCs and the friend with gusto, but seem to avoid the creepy brother. Come morning, the PCs' friend and his brother are both missing, and no rat-creatures are anywhere to be found. Exploring the grounds, the PCs find a tunnel inside a disused shed; the tunnel leads into the basement of the house.*Entering the basement, they find an unholy ritual in progress. The deranged brother is copulating with a female rat-creature-much larger than the others-while part-human, part-rat babies suckle at her teats. The PCs' friend is chained up inside a ceremonial circle, screaming his head off. The ritual summons a rat-monster the size of a car, and the PCs must take it down while fighting off a horde of baby rat-creatures and the rat-monster queen-and keeping their friend from being devoured.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi*Tags: (MR) betrayal, exploration, investigative, madness, magic, mature themes, monster==The Hammer's Soul*An older gay man is bludgeoned to death in an alley near  an expensive restaurant, and the detective in charge of the investigation involves the PCs because of their expertise in occult matters-something just feels "off" to him. Investigating the crime scene, the PCs detect a weak supernatural aura. Their investigation reveals that the man was having dinner with a close female friend, that he didn't have any enemies, and that he was killed with an old-fashioned hammer. There are no other clues.*A few nights later, another man is beaten to death outside of a health club. He was a gym trainer, also with no known enemies, and the woman who had dinner with the first victim was one of his clients. Traces of the supernatural are present at this crime scene, as well.*The woman is a mortgage officer who lives in the city and is married to an insurance salesman. The first chance the PCs have to check her out, she's out of town; the couple headed into the country, where they have a cottage. A supernatural aura surrounds the house. Once inside, the PCs find that it emanates from the husband's workshop. There they find an antique hammer covered in dried blood, with strange markings on its shaft. They also find an auction house receipt for the hammer, dated just before the night of the first man's murder.*The hammer was donated for a charity auction, and it has a troubling history. In the 1800s, it was used in the commission of a series of brutal murders: A husband used it to kill all of his wife's lovers, and then burned her alive. Occult investigation reveals that the soul of the killer was somehow bound to the hammer, but is no longer present-his soul has taken over the mortgage officer's husband. Believing that his wife's closest male friends are actually her lovers (which they're not), he killed them both, and now that he's alone with his wife in their cottage he plans to burn her alive.*The PCs must rush to the cottage to save the possessed man's wife, and then figure out how to deal with the man himself-and the killer's soul inside him. Depending on your campaign, this can involve a magical ritual to banish the killer's soul (or channel it back into the hammer), a fight with the possessed man, or another climactic scene that fits your group's play style.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) investigative, madness, spirit, villain==Clothes Make the Man*Demons are possessing mortals in order to complete rituals in the earthly realm. Some of these people are related to or are friends of the PCs. The possessed act almost normal, but have small tells such as strange changes in diet, long absences, or fits of anger and greed. The people's displaced souls attempt to inhabit other bodies in order to fight back.*The displaced approach the PCs, trying to explain the situation, but their attempts at possession are not as refined as the demons' and their utterances are strange and guttural. If they can make words, they can't form coherent sentences. This behavior may suggest a strange disease or mass hysteria.*Being unable to explain their plight, the displaced spirits begin clawing and biting the demon-possessed bodies. These attempts may break some of the demons' possession magic, encouraging the souls to try to re-inhabit their bodies. When this happens, a battle will ensue in both the spiritual and physical realm. Many of the borrowed bodies die at the hands of the demons. Occasionally, though the demons are far stronger, a soul finds the will to regain control of its body.*The PCs should hear about the attacks from the loved ones of those whose bodies have been taken, and should be nearby during at least one attack. The PCs may kill one of their actual relatives in defending their false relatives. Keep the PCs off-balance and introduce elements that make them question their relatives and the "disease."*While this is going on, demons have been gathering at an abandoned construction site, calling forth other demons to take still more bodies. The PCs should find out about this from a friend who made it back into her body, by noticing the strange behavior of their loved ones and following them, or by one of the displaced spirits getting through to a PC despite the communication barrier.*The demons' plans can be ruined by destroying their ritual site, but they will fight fiercely if they discover the PCs in that area. The demons can be driven out of their bodies with exposure to holy objects or by other means, as best fits your game of choice.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) betrayal, deadline, innocent, madness, magic, relationship hook, sandbox, social, spirit, twist==Siblings Reunited*A friend of the PCs comes to them asking for help: He has  been having terrible nightmares about killing small animals, and he wonders if there might be some occult reason for his dreams. Using the unusually vivid details provided by their friend, the PCs track down two or three of the sites where he dreamed that he had murdered animals and find evidence that the murders took place. The friend has ironclad alibis for each instance. A few days later, he contacts the PCs again: He just awoke from a dream in which he killed a homeless child.*The man's sister is behind the murders. The two siblings were separated during World War II, and never reunited. Although the man has looked for his sister on and off ever since, he has never been able to locate her. For her part, the war changed her, and she took a much darker path through life. Now bitter and broken, she has discovered the joy of murder-and after starting out with animals, she has moved on to human beings. The two share a psychic link, the source of many strange dreams in each sibling's life, and because of the murders it has now become a wide-open conduit.*When the PCs learn that this link goes both ways, they can use it to drive the killer out into the open. The man can, with effort, send images across the link, showing the killer that they're on her trail. Once this happens, she realizes that the sender is her long-lost brother, and starts tormenting him. While the PCs are tracking her down, she is mailing her brother strange objects from their brief shared past: a child's water pistol filled with blood, a young girl's pullover matted with bloody animal hair, and so on.*The finale is a confrontation between the PCs and the man's sister, during which he realizes just who the killer is. She is a cunning and dangerous opponent, and can have occult powers if that makes her a more challenging foe for your group. Her brother won't want to kill her, and will try to keep the PCs from doing so; she will use this against them to good effect.*With the right group, you can make one of the PCs the sister's sibling, adding an emotional element to this adventure-and if the killer escapes, sparking a very dark follow-up adventure, as well.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, madness, race, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, twist, villain*Self-Sacrifice for an Ideal==A Body to Die For*A businessman has been making a killing  producing supernaturally effective commercials. He has done so through his innate supernatural skills, a vampiric gift, a bargain with the old ones, or whatever method is appropriate to your setting.*Many teens become obsessed with the commercials. The PCs may be approached by teen allies, who are losing their friends to this newfound obsession, or by parents who are worried about their children.*The PCs are asked to investigate the death of a teenage girl who overdosed on sleeping pills. Her hastily written online journal both explains the futility of trying to live in a world without happiness and minutely examines the commercials. Investigation reveals a number of similarly obsessive journals by other local girls.*Examining the commercial through supernatural means will reveal the power it holds. Figuring out exactly what it does will require gaining access to the original commercial tapes. The PCs may disguise themselves as police or other officials, break into the facility housing the tapes, or find a way to steal the original tapes. Copies don't show the supernatural effects, which may muddy their investigation.*It may be difficult for the PCs to come up with a good explanation for getting the commercials off the air, but if they fail, more teens will become obsessed and suicidal. If the deaths continue for much longer, a local reporter will do an investigation and air an expos of the journals and the dead teens (which can be used to recapture the attention of the PCs if they get distracted).*The commercial is very successful, and is scheduled to go national soon. The businessman sequesters himself in his home studio, where he custom-duplicates the tape. To duplicate the special effects of the tape requires secret rituals, which the PCs can interrupt.*His mansion is surrounded by a high masonry wall, and several security guards patrol his estate. They will retreat if confronted with significant force, but will also call both additional security guards and the police for reinforcements.*If attacked during the duplication process, the businessman will invoke his supernatural patron or use his personal mind-influencing powers against the PCs. Even more disturbing, several teenage devotees of his commercials have run away from home and will throw themselves at anyone who threatens the creator of their obsession.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Sci-fi, Supernatural*Tags: (SM) deadline, epic impact, innocent, investigative, isolated area, madness, magic, relationship hook, shady, stealth, villain==Home Is Where the Heart Is*A secluded town is populated by otherworldly beings that   have undergone a change in order to hide amongst humankind. Many elements of this adventure will depend on whether they are benign or malicious. If benign, the beings may be hiding from others of their kind and simply enjoy being part of human society. If malicious, the beings may be trying to perfect their disguises and understanding of humans as they plan for a takeover. No matter their intentions, the town will protect its secret at all costs.*The PCs' vehicle may break down outside of the town and require repairs, or they may be sent there in search of a rare object. If you want to introduce suspicion about the town from the outset, have the town be the site of strange disappearances as the beings eliminate outside threats.*Much of the fun in this adventure is in the lead-up to the reveal. Encounters with the townspeople should provide a sense of subtle oddness and danger. Many peculiar things happen to the PCs while they're in town. The PCs notice buildings that should be present, like the town hall, are missing. Some of the townspeople act normal, but others are overanxious and unaware when they break social norms, causing tension with other residents. The beings go to extreme measures to cover up these inconsistencies, causing more suspicion. If the PCs don't notice anything wrong, ratchet up the odd behavior. A final clincher to break the secret may be necessary: Have the PCs catch a being out of disguise, at which point it raises an alarm.*Once the beings are sufficiently panicked, they will surround and hold the PCs, deciding that the only way to protect their secret is to kill them in a ritual sacrifice. The PCs should be held but afforded a chance to escape while the beings prepare. If the PCs escape, the beings will hunt for them, causing a tense survival situation and a chase through the woods. The beings will pursue the PCs and kill them on sight. Once the PCs reach a major road, the beings will stop pursuit.*Escape may be enough for the PCs, but if the beings are malicious they may want to destroy the town before they flee. The means for this should be present in town, such as explosive materials or a dam that holds back enough water to flood the whole area.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (JA) difficult choice, investigative, isolated area, monster, race, sandbox, social, travel==One Hundred Years of Peace*A stranger approaches the PCs and offers them an  exorbitant amount of money to accompany him to a mysterious island, escort him and his sister to the island's interior, and then depart without him. He has chartered a steamer, with the PCs as crew if they have the skills (or as passengers if not), for the two-week ocean voyage, and makes no demands of the PCs during the trip.*Around the halfway point, there's a violent storm-40-foot seas threaten to swamp the steamer, and several crew members are washed overboard. The PCs must work with the crew to keep the ship afloat during the storm. Once the storm abates, they may need to assist the sailors in order to make up for the missing crew members.*As they near the island, the man reveals that he's the keeper of a sacred tradition, and is going to the island to fulfill his destiny. Every 100 years, his family must make a sacrifice to the god of the island in order to ensure another century of peace. His sister breaks down in tears; she has tried many times before to dissuade him, and came along on the voyage so that she could continue trying to stop him.*The journey to the sacrifice site is perilous. The rocky island is home to venomous snakes, blood-drinking bats, and other uncommon-and nasty-creatures. En route, the PCs must cross a rope bridge that gives out when someone is partway across, fend off a swarm of vampire bats that attacks after the man cuts himself accidentally, and negotiate a fast-moving stream that's teeming with poisonous water snakes. The closer they get to the site, the more nervous the man becomes.*At the site, the man asks for the PCs' help in keeping his sister safe-and also in keeping her from stopping him until the ritual has begun. After he initiates the ritual, the earth begins to rumble and the man gets cold feet and flees. The elder god-a hideous nightmare creature of tentacles, mouths, and flailing limbs-rises from its pit and tries to claim the man's sister in his stead-any family member will do.*The sister and the PCs have a tough choice to make: Without a sacrifice to make, the elder god will slither off the island and bring ruin wherever it goes, but can the sister muster the courage to be that sacrifice or will the PCs have to force her to do it?*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Swashbuckling, Victim Horror*Tags: (MR) difficult choice, escort mission, exploration, twist, monster, innocent, roleplaying-heavy, isolated area==On the Night Train Too*Centuries ago, a king bound a demon into a silver urn. The  binding granted the urn's holder the power to siphon vitality from those around him and thereby extend his own life. In time, he came to fear the urn, and he denied it further sacrifices; in retaliation, the demon slew him. The king was entombed with the urn, where he lay until archaeologists unearthed his tomb a few years ago.*When the urn was examined after its excavation, the demon escaped. One of the archaeologists figured out the true nature of the urn, and the demon set its sights on him. He fled by night train, taking the urn with him, and the demon trapped him there. As fate would have it, the train company's logo contains a Masonic element that blocks the demon-it cannot enter any of the cars, so it rides invisibly on the roof. Resolved to prevent the demon from re-entering the urn, the archaeologist has ridden the train ever since, kept alive without sustenance by the residual magic within the urn, and he is now quite mad.*The train is part of the public transportation system, and is ridden by the PCs. By sprinkling minor encounters with the archaeologist-a deranged, shabby-looking man in a worn suit, carrying a battered, bulging leather satchel-into other scenarios, you can slowly reveal the dark stalemate that is behind his plight. The demon's influence can be felt throughout the train, and reveals itself in flared tempers and vermin spotted out of the corner of one's eyes-and occasionally more directly, as it manifests in a desperate attempt to enter a train car. Something is clearly not right with the old man, either: He's sometimes observed scratching the train company's logo into the window panes, and he's always glancing up at the roof of the train, from which strange noises can occasionally be heard.*If the characters help the archaeologist, he can tell them how to research the demon's origins, and the means of banishing it. If he could leave the train, he would have done the research himself, and that knowledge has only furthered his madness. Should the characters not intervene, the man will eventually succumb to complete insanity and get off the train, at which point he'll be devoured by the demon. Reunited with its urn, the demon will wait patiently for someone else to claim its unholy vessel, and the cycle of sacrifices will begin anew.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) alliance, city, deadline, innocent, investigative, isolated area, madness, siege, social, spirit, villain==What Would Darwin Do?*The PCs are employees of or visitors to a biological research facility. Alarms ring and the doors lock, trapping them and a number of researchers inside a horticultural research laboratory. A voice speaks over the intercom, "This is Agent Darwin of the Population Reduction Front. I have released the so-called Zombie Flu into the ventilation system and also vented it to the outside air. Humanity will be reduced to a fraction of its swollen numbers. You may not thank me now, but you should-assuming you survive. Your grandchildren most certainly will."*This laboratory has its own air purifier and generator, and plenty of respirators to go around. Security guards each carry a pistol with two magazines, and gardening tools are available, including hoes, machetes, and hatchets.*The researchers explain that the Zombie Flu is a biological weapon that was being developed at the facility. It turns people into mindless cannibals and is transmitted via respiration or introduction into a wound. It takes only 10 minutes to infect the victim, and the partially-developed antidote must be given within an hour in order to reverse it.*One researcher on a computer finds an experimental vaccine in another lab, and cultures for an antidote in a third lab. As she's pulling up a facility map, the computer network crashes.   The researchers are confident that they can complete the work on the antidote, but they need the cultures and the network brought back online. One researcher notes that the network is controlled the security system. The keycard system and closed-circuit television cameras won't work, and doors must be opened by key or by crowbar.*The members of the Population Reduction Front hold the security station and server room, and have already vaccinated themselves, although the vaccine isn't 100% effective. They've raided the weapons locker but expect to defend themselves from zombies, not from intelligent attackers. They're motivated, but are poorly trained and aren't prepared for resistance.*The cultures are in an area infested with zombies. They're held in portable refrigerators that must be rolled back to the horticulture lab.*For a more hopeful plot, the ventilation system hasn't been opened to the outside world yet, and the PCs may be able to clear the facility before this happens.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) alliance, deadline, epic impact, innocent, monster, siege, social, tactical planning==A Prison with Pigtails*The PCs are investigating several sites of supernatural activity that all seem to be linked to one another. Strange markings are found on the floor and walls at each site, and research reveals that they're symbols used by an obscure cult. The symbols make reference to the return of the cult's dark god and the destruction that will follow.*During their investigation, the PCs spot two people standing a short distance away from the scene: a man and a little girl. If the PCs observe them secretly, they'll see the pair approach one of the supernatural sites after everyone else has left and perform their own investigation. When confronted, the man will confess that he is an occultist and has been tracking this cult for many years; the girl is his daughter.*Partway through this discussion, a supernatural creature attacks the group. It targets the girl, but the man puts himself between her and the creature and suffers a mortal wound. When the creature is killed or driven off, the man tells the PCs that the girl is the key to stopping the return of the dark god. His notebook can lead them to the cult, and will also tell them what to do in order to stop the god's return. He expires on the spot.*The PCs will need to decipher the clues in the man's notebook in order to determine the cult's location, as well as the time when they need to perform the ritual to keep the god from returning to the world. They must also talk to the girl in order to find out why she's so important. She has dreams about the dark god, and knows that she must stop it from returning, but she has no idea how to do so. While the PCs are working on these clues, the girl is attacked by another supernatural creature; the PCs must fight it off.*When they reach the ritual site, the PCs must battle the cultists to interrupt their ritual and hope that the girl will figure out what she needs to do to complete the banishment. In actuality, the girl is a living prison intended to trap the dark god. She becomes aware of this fact while the PCs are attacking the cultists, and in the middle of the fight she will approach the partially-summoned god. It reaches out to devour her, only to be sucked into her soul-trapped, and unable to fully manifest in the world.*The girl turns to the PCs and tells them to take her to a mental asylum, where she can be kept safe while the god's madness consumes her. Those are the last sane words she ever speaks.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (PV) combat-heavy, investigative, madness, magic, monster, religion*Self-Sacrifice for Kindred==Powerless*One of the PCs' loved ones (the closer the better-a child is perfect) has been cursed by one of their enemies. They notice that the loved one is avoiding them, but he won't say why; he's coming to grips with the curse and doesn't want to endanger them. Shortly thereafter, a supernatural murder takes place and the PCs are brought in to investigate. At the scene, they find evidence that the loved one was present.*The PCs must track down the loved one; when they find him, he's about to make an attack on another innocent person-or worse, he's already done so. He confesses to the PCs that he has been cursed, and his mind isn't his own: He must lash out at those around him, killing them, and this is why he's been avoiding the PCs. He also tells the PCs who cursed him.*When the PCs confront their enemy, the enemy offers them a chance to lift the curse on their loved one by giving up a measure of their power. The enemy is too powerful to face head-on (an elder vampire, for example), and no one else can remove the curse. Will the PCs sacrifice their powers and abilities to save the loved one, or will they be able to come up with a different means of saving him?*This is an unusual plot: It pits your players' roleplaying interests (saving the loved one, and exploring what they're willing to sacrifice to do so) against their mechanical interests (retaining the powers that make their PCs fun to play). It will work best if you hint that they may be able to get their powers back, should they choose to give them up to save the loved one. You can then run a session or two where the PCs-now powerless-experience the game world from a different perspective before regaining their abilities (an adventure unto itself). This can also be an opportunity for your players to redesign their PCs, choosing new abilities instead of simply recovering their old ones.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, innocent, madness, relationship hook, villain==The Families We Are Born To*A brother and sister are studied and experimented upon  because of their psychic powers. Together they balance each other out, but when they're apart their powers are volatile. The girl escapes, but loses control in a crowded location. People cry out as they become increasingly depressed, anxious, and scared, subject to girl's projected emotions. The PCs should witness or be affected by this. The situation is temporarily resolved when the girl injects herself with something and goes unconscious in front of the PCs.*When the girl awakens, she sobbingly tells her story to the PCs. She talks about the experiments on her and her brother, the drugs throwing her off balance, and how her brother is still in captivity. The PCs get a full dose of negative emotions from her. She begs them to help and says that her problems only get worse without her brother. Before she's done telling her tale, armed men approach and attempt to capture her. The group is small and can be overcome or escaped from fairly easily.*If the PCs agree to help her, she leads them to the facility. They quickly lose sight of her, however, as she dashes off-compelled to follow some strange signal. Her abilities allow her to home in on her brother and easily reach him through the maze of hallways and security guards. The brother's powers have been boosted by drugs and react strangely to the reintroduction of his sister's powers, creating incredible physical and emotional pain in everyone nearby. If the PCs are captured by the guards, the party will be subjected to an onslaught of pain as the siblings unwittingly wreak havoc on everyone in the area. If the PCs overcome the guards, they'll be able to follow the trail of mentally assaulted guards to the siblings.*The girl finds the drug used on her brother and injects herself, thinking it will bring her back in balance. This spreads psychic chaos for blocks around. The boy and girl are no longer innocents in need of help-now they're the epicenter of a huge psychic event that tears people's minds apart.*The PCs are faced with hard decisions in this final conflict. Resolution for this scenario should provide some sense of loss and reflect the fact that not all endings are happy. It may be necessary to kill the children for the greater good. A PC might find a drug to suppress the children until medical help can be obtained, but the children are forever changed without their psychic powers.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) city, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, madness, magic, shady, social, twist==Wedding Colors*With great excitement, a friend of the PCs invites them to her wedding. She and her fiance just set the date, and they hope that the PCs are as excited as they are. Close friends may get roped into being bridesmaids or groomsmen, helping to choose colors, planning bachelorette parties, etc. Meeting her future groom is a bit strained; take the opportunity to ask the PCs questions like, "So, what do you do?" and have them try to explain their peculiar lifestyle. The groom is an engineer for an electrical design firm, and will talk animatedly about his job if the PCs ask.*The friend is getting married at her aunt's country house, which is rambling and picturesque. The entire wedding party needs to arrive early to get it ready for the big day. The groom arrives three days before the wedding. At 1:33 a.m. he awakens everyone in the house with an ear-splitting scream. He describes a ghostly woman who approached him while he was on the toilet. She stepped out of a mirror, and her outline is still visible as condensation on the glass. When she hears the story, the bride's mother recognizes the woman the groom describes as her older sister, who died 50 years ago.*The next morning, a shaving mirror shatters violently while a PC is using it, followed by a low moan and a glimpse of motion in the corner of the bathroom mirror. Moments later the groom knocks on the door and asks if everything is alright. Similar incidents afflict the other PCs. For the rest of the day, everyone is on edge, but the bride is insistent about not relocating the ceremony; play up the jittery wedding preparations.*After the rehearsal dinner, creaking can be heard from the attic. PCs who investigate find that the roof trusses have been weakened; if they're not shored up, the roof could collapse during the wedding ceremony, killing everyone present. It's clear that the ghost is involved. Further investigation reveals that the ghost's husband was killed in an electrical fire-one caused by the negligence of the groom's firm 50 years ago. She wants the groom dead as revenge, and will escalate her efforts as the wedding approaches.*Can the PCs protect the groom and avoid panicking the wedding guests while dealing with a vengeful-and increasingly violent-ghost?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) deadline, innocent, isolated area, magic, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==A Mother's Love*Without warning, one of the PCs' friends commits suicide. The week before her death, she repeatedly mentioned that everything would soon be okay for her children. Her estate isn't modest, but nor is it large enough to indefinitely provide for her children.*All three of her children confide in the PCs about a nightmare in which their mother is imprisoned in the cellar underneath an old farmhouse. The children haven't spoken to each other about it, but the details of the dream are identical.*When she was very young, the woman's parents were in a cult that met in an old farmhouse. The family left the cult long ago, but not before her parents foolishly agreed to bind all of their descendents to a dark power in return for a successful life. She figured the pact was just superstition, but after her parents died she started having nightmares. In her dreams, her parents reminded her of the ritual, and told her that the dark power they worshipped would take her soul. They expressed regret, but said it was too late to undo the ritual.*Attempting to break the cycle and save her children, she committed suicide. Her soul is now trapped under the farmhouse. The farmhouse isn't difficult to locate, but it's inhabited by a dozen squatters, including children. They're very suspicious of strangers and have all been unknowingly drawn there by the dark power. When the PCs enter the house, the dark power will possess the squatters and turn them against the PCs.*The shallow root cellar is filled with canning jars, tools, and a low door to a storm cellar. Any non-squatter entering is attacked by flying jars and tools. The storm cellar is deep and dark, and holds a small altar to the dark power. A contract and a dark red jewel sit upon the altar. The contract is the pact, and the woman's soul flickers inside the gem.*The contract offers two options. The soul can be freed to find its proper end, but the family will then be cursed forever. Or, the soul can be sacrificed, which will damn it to the service of the dark power but will free the family of the curse.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, magic, mature themes, relationship hook, religion, social, spirit, twist==A Perfect Childhood*Wanting only the best for their children, a wealthy high society couple struck a deal with a demon: For every person they kill in a ritualistic fashion, their children will enjoy success in their current endeavor. Need to get them into prep school? Kill a stray dog. Want them to score well on college admission tests? Murder a wino.*With their children now in their teens, the couple has been doing this for over a decade-they're serial killers, though they don't see themselves that way. The wife is more conflicted than the husband, but both of them have willingly sacrificed their humanity for their children's future, and their children are almost entirely in the dark about it. The youngest child is suspicious, but she has left the matter alone.*Recently, a detective connected the dots and concluded that the murders were serial killings. Because of the ritualistic nature of the slayings, he contacted the PCs for assistance. The higher-ups aren't buying the detective's suspicions, and have tasked him to work on fresher cases; he can give the PCs some help, but not a lot.*As they investigate the crimes, the PCs spot a pattern with an apparent gap-a gap that could be caused by a crime scene that has yet to be found. This is the case, and they're the first to the scene. There they find a broken bracelet that turns out to be a well-known piece of jewelry. The bracelet has been featured in several magazines for the rarity of its gemstones, and information on its owner accompanies each story; this leads the PCs to the couple. The family doesn't seem to be harboring any serial killers, but the youngest daughter, who has had her suspicions confirmed, contacts the PCs after they leave. As they talk to her, the rest of the pattern emerges: The successes in her life, and the lives of her siblings, map neatly to the timing of the murders.*She tells them that her parents have been planning a family vacation to a site that fits the ritual map, and her oldest brother has just applied to Harvard-they are going to kill again. Then she disappears, along with her family. Her parents have taken her to the ritual site, a lake house.*The finale is a showdown between the PCs and the entire family, as the other children take more after their father and relish their success too much to give it up. They're holding the daughter hostage, and there could be fallout around killing an entire socialite family if the PCs handle things badly.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MR) innocent, investigative, magic, mature themes*All Sacrificed for a Passion==Downward Spiral*Weeks after a university professor lead an expedition to a ruined Aztec temple, villagers began to disappear and strange, fiery lights were seen in the area. A long-dormant race of subterranean creatures is responding to the reactivation of an old harvesting mechanism used to collect human blood. They left when smallpox was introduced into the population, but are being drawn back by the addictive substance flowing down the pipes once again.*The mechanism was activated by the professor's expedition when, upon exploring the ruins, they found many strange drawings of fire-bodied humanoid beings adorning the lower levels. The drawings suggested that the beings accepted blood sacrifice and, out of morbid curiosity, the professor pricked his finger and let a drop fall onto a table covered with complex carvings. Pipes connected to the table spiraled beyond the lowest floor. This called to the beings, and they began to whisper in the professor's mind, promising great power if he delivered more blood.*Most of the professor's assistants left him when his theories become increasingly crazy and dangerous. He contacts the PCs and offers a bounty in Aztec gold if they will help him find a particular artifact. His ultimate goal in contacting the PCs is to recruit them to his cause-harvesting blood for the fire creatures-by allowing the creatures to infect their thoughts.*The professor's first plan is to trick the PCs into offering some of their own blood at the ritual table, in hopes that the creatures will infect their minds and turn them to the cause. He leads them to the drawings and pretends to be discovering them for the first time. He purposefully misinterprets the symbols as he reads them to the PCs, saying that a small blood offering is required to open a secret passage. He suggests that each person gives it a try. The professor goes first, though his offering has little noticeable effect. If any of the PCs comply, the creatures will invade their thoughts and they will descend into a madness similar to the professor's.*The PCs should then spend some time exploring the ruins and finding clues, such as sacrificial remains and various drawings, which point toward the truth. They encounter rats and wild dogs that are being controlled by the creatures. These animals seem rabid and will attack the PCs on sight. After some time searching for the artifact (a complete red herring), the professor makes his second try at offering the PCs' blood. He lures each PC down to the table individually and attacks them.*The PCs must defeat the creatures by offering them blood tainted by an infectious disease. If they fail, the creatures surround the village and take all present into the ruins, sending more blood to their brethren. They seek to claim the billions of "cattle" that now populate the surface of the planet. As more and more creatures pour forth, their reach spreads. Many new holes begin to open in other parts of the world, with ruins found just inside the holes. Soon it becomes an apocalyptic event.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, epic impact, escort mission, investigative, isolated area, madness, villain==Feast of Technology*Vehicles along a main highway into the PCs' city have been suffering mysterious mechanical failures, simply going dead on the roadway. The source of the problem is a band of gremlins that have moved into the area; their lair is an electrical vault beneath a section of the highway. When a gremlin hitches a ride to a nearby hospital, things begin to get ugly. Suspecting that there's more to failures of devices throughout the hospital than simple coincidence, one of the PCs' contacts brings them in to investigate the situation.*The gremlins can only be seen by those with an affinity for the supernatural; the havoc that they wreak also leaves a faint aura that suggests paranormal activity. When the PCs arrive, the gremlin causing problems at the hospital is gone-it has returned to its lair to tell the rest of the band about the shiny, beeping devices it has found. While the PCs poke around the hospital, the gremlins arrive in force.*First the hospital's main lights flicker, then heart monitors throughout the building begin to wail. The hospital erupts into chaos, with staff rushing to and fro trying to solve problems that are cropping up too fast for them to handle. The PCs must assist the staff in dealing with the most critical problems, and during this scene they'll spot the gremlins. Once the gremlins have been sated, they'll return to their lair. They'll use their powers to divert the PCs, making a clean getaway.*Once the PCs have researched the nature of the threat, they will know that the gremlins will return to the hospital before too long. When they do, the PCs can try a range of tactics against them. Destroying a gremlin causes it to vanish, but it's clear that the creature isn't dead. In fact, "killing" them simply causes them to re-form a few hours in their lair. Once the gremlins know the PCs are opposing them, they'll shift their focus to driving the PCs out of the hospital. They're a lot like energetic, yappy dogs, and can be outwitted and out-planned.*To keep them from coming back, the PCs must lure them away from the hospital, using technology that the gremlins can mangle as bait, and then either destroy them in their lair (a permanent end) or isolate them in a technology-free area, which will send them into hibernation.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (SM) city, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, magic, relationship hook, spirit==Gallery of Blood*One of the PCs comes across an unusual painting: The work is disturbing, depicting an alternate world in hues of red, and she can feel strong negative psychic energy emanating from the canvas. The PCs look into the painting's history and track it back to a nearby art gallery. The gallery owner has several other pieces by the same artist, and all of them have a similar psychic imprint.*Research will reveal that the artist has been around for some time, but that most of his work is considered average at best. Only recently has his work become exceptional and begun to command higher prices. The PCs will also learn that he has a studio in the city.*Visiting the artist, they see that he's not well. He has neglected his hygiene entirely, and speaks in a rambling, disorganized manner; his studio is a disaster. The entire place gives off an overpowering negative psychic aura-an aura of evil.*In his studio the PCs find a set of brushes made of polished human bone and hair that emanate the same evil energy. The artist says that the brushes were a gift from the gallery owner, who acquired them from an insane artist who is now in an asylum.*Looking into the other artist's background, the PCs learn that she, too, was an average painter who suddenly began turning out extraordinary work (highly erotic paintings that are now an underground art sensation). Several years ago, at the height of her success, she killed her female lover in a fight and was declared insane; her profits pay the fees at the expensive asylum where she now lives. If the PCs interview her, she reveals that she also received a box of bone brushes from the gallery owner.*The PCs track the gallery owner to her country house. There is a twisted, haunted aura around the house's grounds. Inside, the PCs find the gallery owner torturing a person as part of a dark ritual. She is charged with evil psychic energy and possesses a number of supernatural powers, making her a formidable and disturbing foe.*If they defeat the gallery owner, the PCs will discover that the ritual that they interrupted was used to enhance paints, giving them the power to turn ordinary painters into twisted but gifted artists. She has tortured and killed hundreds of people over the years, and her rituals have fueled the rise of more than 20 different artists around the world. Her house contains a fortune in disturbing artwork.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (PV) investigative, madness, magic, mature themes, villain==Vanished into Shadow*A few days ago, the entire population of a small town  simply vanished. There were no signs of foul play, and the police are completely at a loss. They found meals still cooking on stovetops, running cars with no one in them, and roaming dogs still attached to their leashes-as if everyone simultaneously decided to just walk away from their lives.*Two years ago, a woman in town fell in love with a married man who wanted nothing to do with her, and she has pursued him ever since. Spurned repeatedly, she has become the town drunk, and is treated like a pariah by the townsfolk. When she hit bottom, a demon came to her and offered to make them all go away: Every person who had ever laughed at her, wronged her, or shamed her would vanish. She said yes, and the demon shifted the entire population of the town into the shadow world. They're all still alive, but stuck in a shadowy, alternate version of the town and unable to return without help.*When the PCs investigate, they'll find that the dogs on the streets are friendly, but they won't approach one particular house on the edge of town (the woman's home). In quiet moments, whispering can be heard. Patient listening will lead the PCs to the source: the leaves in the trees around another house (the man's). They whisper, "Love her, you have to love her" over and over, and quite forcefully.*The woman is not in the shadow world; she fled after the ritual, and is hiding in the woods nearby. When the PCs are on the right track, she will ask for their help. They can enter the shadow realm through a mirror in the woman's house; once there, they must contend with the demon, which wants to see the townsfolk remain in its thrall, and the townsfolk, who are divided between wanting to kill the woman for bringing about their plight, and wanting to unite her with the object of her affection in the hope that she'll release them.*The woman herself wants the object of her affection returned to the mortal world, but no one else. If suitably convinced, she can help the PCs reverse the ritual, forcing the demon to manifest so that it can be killed or driven off. If they refuse to help her, she will kill herself-trapping the townsfolk forever.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (MR) deadline, epic challenge, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==Alive and Killing*The PCs are homicide detectives and members of law enforcement, and they get assigned to an unusual case. The victim is a 20-something woman, killed during her regular early morning run. Her throat was slit, strange symbols were carved into her flesh, and her eyes, ears, tongue, lungs and heart were removed. Among other details, she is blood type O negative. Little else can be discerned.*Investigation identifies the symbols as being occult markings of secrecy and preservation. More research shows that ancient local belief holds that taking of the eyes, ears, and tongue protects a murderer against discovery.*Another victim shows up a day later, this one an organic chef in his twenties, murdered late at night as he walked home from work. He shows the same mutilations as the woman, but his digestive tract was removed, including his liver and pancreas. He is also blood type O negative.*Investigation reveals that he bought a newspaper from a convenience store, and his body was found five minutes later. The only other person in the video from the store surveillance camera was a woman in an expensive car, who stares at the victim as he walks past, then gets out and walks after him. Her image is hazy, but the car is easily identified.*The truth is that with the assistance of stolen experimental equipment, a genius-level medical researcher has managed to bring his dead wife back to life-after a fashion. The wife's body is as healthy and strong as ever, but a murderous spirit has possessed it and is building itself a better body. The spirit's plan is to collect near-perfect organs and new body parts, and then use the stolen experimental medical equipment to create its new shell. The stolen organs are preserved in his lab.*The researcher was fired from his facility over suspected theft of the equipment, and has retired here to keep the questions about his suddenly-alive-again wife to a minimum. The spirit has access to her personality and memories and is enjoying toying with him, but it will enjoy killing him as well. She will go after the PCs if they question her or her husband about the murders.*Her next planned victim is a young math genius and chess prodigy; after that, she'll choose one of the PCs for his or her physical fitness.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, deadline, investigative, magic, social, spirit, villain*Necessity of Sacrificing Loved Ones==What is He Building in There?*Strange clanking noises are heard coming from a  dilapidated house. The owner is dead, but his deformed children are still inside, surviving on scraps and continuing to build the strange contraptions and traps that their father's addled mind conceived to keep his children safe from each other and the world. The PCs have come into possession of the house and are there to look it over before the sale is completed.*Exploring the house, the PCs find no residents but encounter an almost unending number of strange and dangerous contraptions built into the house. Not far into the house, a trap is set off, closing off the only way out. As the PCs search for a way to escape, they hear movement-too loud to be rats-behind the walls, moving to the lower levels. The PCs should be unable to get directly to the lower levels, instead having to take a roundabout way through the sprawling house.*In the basement are two open cages, one small and one large, containing ripped and torn children's books. Inside the smaller cage is a scarred, mutated child drawing crayon pictures of a larger person beating him. He seems frightened, but curious. He stops a deadly trap from hitting the PCs and warms up to them if they appear friendly. He disappears into the walls when an odd bellowing is heard from elsewhere in the house.*This is the larger child, angered and seeking to get rid of the intruders. From this point on, the entire house is dangerous to the PCs. They should be cautious of every move, unsure of where the next threat will come from or how to escape, and they have to use passages between the walls to get anywhere safely. They might glimpse the larger child resetting traps, only to see him run away, glaring and angry.*The smaller child tries to help the PCs by disabling traps and attempting to stop his brother. Ultimately, the PCs are lured towards an exit only to be cut off by an impassable trap and the gloating larger child. The smaller child will jump out from a wall and push the larger child into the trap, killing both and gumming up the works, allowing the PCs to escape.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural*Tags: (JA) alliance, dungeon crawl, exploration, innocent, tactical planning, villain==Battle Not with Monsters, Lest Ye Become One*One of the PCs is contacted by a friend of the group's  mentor or patron, the person responsible for getting them involved with the supernatural in the first place. The friend is concerned about the mentor, who has been acting strangely the past few weeks and has now gone missing. Searching the mentor's home, the PCs find notes on their group's current focus, whether that's a monster, a particular cult, or unexplained murders, as well as evidence that their mentor now maintains a second residence. Searching that residence reveals that the mentor isn't investigating the same focus as the PCs: Trophies, scrawled notes, and writing on the walls make it clear that the mentor has actually become a killer-the subject of the PCs' other investigation. The mentor himself is nowhere to be found.*Not long after that, a killing occurs in the city that matches the modus operandi of the threat the PCs are looking into. Evidence at the crime scene confirms that the mentor was involved, and gives the PCs a clue to the threat's next target. The PCs race to that location, only to find their mentor about to commit a brutal murder.*To save the mentor's target, the PCs have no choice but to fight their mentor-and kill him. With a few minutes left to live, he's able to have a brief but lucid conversation with the PCs. He asks for their forgiveness and reveals the location of some notes that are critical to their current investigation. After his funeral, they retrieve the notes; in them, the mentor tells the tale of how he became corrupted by his work, and eventually fell in with the forces of evil.*This is a rather straightforward plot, but deliberately so: Its goal is to demonstrate the costs of the war against evil, and to warn the PCs about the consequences of the lifestyle that they have chosen. This plot is best run mid-campaign, using an established NPC as the mentor. The closer the PCs are to their mentor, the more meaningful and difficult the real struggle in this adventure-killing their mentor-will be.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) investigative, relationship hook, villain==The Dying Tree*On a windswept hilltop outside a small town sits a tree with a twisted, gnarled trunk. Despite its sinister appearance, those who stand beneath it feel a sense of warmth and happiness. It has been there for decades, though it appears larger in old photos. In truth, the tree is an evil entity: It demands human sacrifices, and when they're not forthcoming, it spreads ill fortune in the nearby town. For years, the town warded off this evil by quietly sacrificing drifters to the tree, but in modern times, this is more complicated than once was-and most of the old families have died off or moved away, leaving few who know of the tradition.*The local priest is committed to feeding the tree and preventing evil from consuming the town. He doesn't know that the tree is also the source of the evil; it has always been regarded as a talisman, warding off the darkness, albeit at a terrible price. The priest believes that God has instructed him to continue the tradition of sacrificing people to the tree-and that there is no greater sacrifice than one's own flesh and blood. He has sacrificed his daughter (who "went missing") and his wife (who "slipped in the shower"); his young son knows something is wrong, but doesn't know what to do, so he gets the PCs involved.*Investigation will turn up dark rumors in the town's past, but also alert the tree to the presence of dangerous outsiders. When the PCs discover a book in the local library, "The Dying Tree," which tells the story of the tree in a roundabout way, bad things start happening to them. These events start small and escalate in proportion to how close they are to the truth. Digging at the base of the tree will reveal the bodies of the priest's wife and daughter; further digging will turn up several decades' worth of corpses.*The climax of the scenarios is a showdown with the priest himself, who is aided by the supernatural powers of the tree. With the help of the priest's son, the PCs may be able to show him the error of his ways-but however it happens, the tree must die. Its last line of defense is animating the bodies buried around its trunk. Once the undead are destroyed, the tree can be chopped down and burned, and the town will be safe.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) betrayal, deadline, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, religion, social, spirit, stealth, villain==A Dish Best Served Cold*Due to their acquisition of an artifact in another adventure, the PCs have become "ghost magnets." Three ghosts are drawn to the PCs, and want their help in seeking revenge. The ghosts cannot interact with objects, but they can make the PCs' lives miserable if not assisted. The wrongs that they have suffered-slavery, murder, and rape-are horrific, and the ghosts aren't interested in forgiveness: They want blood.*The first ghost is a slave girl who died in the 19th century. She is initially timid about approaching the PCs, attempting to communicate through tapping, moving furniture, and other innocuous methods. The PCs may think that they're being haunted, or are under attack. In time, a clearer channel of communication is opened, and the ghost guides the PCs to some old records at the local historical center-records which show that the descendants of her original master own a gas station in town. She asks them to burn it down.*If they refuse, they must contend with an ancient, angry, and potent ghost-a full-fledged encounter in and of itself. If they accept, they must accept the moral and legal consequences of their actions. Whatever the resolution, two other ghosts have sensed the PCs' willingness to listen to their kind, and they will also contact the PCs for assistance.*The second ghost is a boy of seven who was abducted and killed about a decade ago. He guides the PCs to a discarded baseball cap in an abandoned warehouse; the cap will lead them to the boy's killer, a sanitation engineer. The boy will be satisfied by justice (turning the man in to the police) or by the man's death, and again the PCs must decide how to handle this delicate situation.*The third ghost is a 20-year-old college sophomore who was raped and killed a few years ago; as with the boy, her murderer was never caught. She appears near the artifact that the PCs found, as if drawn to it. Until this time, the source of the PCs' supernatural magnetism shouldn't be obvious. The ghost asks the PCs to kill her murderer, and attacks them if they refuse. If they accept, again there are serious moral hazards involved.*Now that they know the source of the hauntings, the PCs can discard, consecrate, or destroy the artifact that is drawing ghosts to them (as appropriate for your campaign). If they see benefits to possessing it, they can also keep it. If they do keep it, many more ghosts will enter their lives in the future.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) difficult choice, innocent, investigative, mature themes, shady, social, spirit==A Child's Playthings*The PCs are orphans, recently transferred to a big city orphanage. As the full moon approaches, whimpering or faint crying sounds are heard. Doors slam closed. Rooms get suddenly cold. Kids cry out in their sleep. Even the staff is irritable.*After the full moon, all of that stops. A child known to be a bully and troublemaker is missing. As the next full moon approaches, the unusual phenomena begin again.*The terrible truth is that every month, the senior staff of the orphanage sacrifices a child by locking him in the lowest basement to be consumed by a spirit of vengeance, leaving only ashes behind. Nearly a decade ago, a child was badly beaten by older children in the orphanage. To avoid an investigation, the staff left him to die in the basement and buried him there. His spirit haunts the orphanage. If the staff doesn't sacrifice an older child every month, or if they try to leave, the child's spirit comes after them. Three staff members have died already, others drink heavily, and several are past retirement age but too afraid to leave.*Sneaking around the orphanage, the PCs can turn up the following clues. The noises and cold spots are most prevalent near the basement. The elderly night watchman drinks himself to sleep every morning. The orphanage's files recording transfers and adoptions don't include the sacrificed children. The lowest basement is soundproofed and has a deadbolt on the outside. Inside, it has a dirt floor but is otherwise completely empty. A list of the worst-behaved children is found; it's titled "Candidates" and the latest victim's name is circled. If the PCs aren't discreet their names may turn up on the list.*The senior staff members are all very old, some in their 80s. They aren't as bright or as quick as they once were. Some of the junior staff know that something is up, but don't know the entire situation. They may be convinced to help the PCs. If the PCs try to contact the spirit, it will wail about abandonment and vengeance, and violently hurl things around.*Possible resolutions include locking the senior staff in the basement on the night of the full moon or digging up the child's body and giving it a proper burial.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (KS) difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, magic, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, siege, social, spirit, stealth==Rival Cults*Two rival cults are competing to outdo one another in their devotion to the same hideous, eldritch monstrosity-with the PCs' home city as their battleground. Who can strike terror into the most citizens? Who can sacrifice more innocents in their deity's name? Who will be the first to awaken their god?*The PCs become aware of this contest (though not, at first, as a competition) when they witness cultists attacking an innocent bystander. After stopping the attack, they dig up lore on the cult and learn that the cult has a long history in their city, and was once part of a prominent and still-extant secret society.*Looking into the secret society, it seems innocent enough-more of a social club for wealthy gentlemen than an actual secret society. Yet when they visit the club's main office, something seems subtly amiss. Another cult encounter, this time a group of cult sorcerers using magic on a crowd, cements it: Once the PCs fight off the cultists, they find that this group is using another version of the secret society's symbol.*As the picture of the rivalry becomes clearer, cult attacks escalate. Against the backdrop of a city descending into chaos, the PCs uncover a bit of lore suggesting that a major cult event is imminent. People are increasingly afraid to leave their houses, especially at night.*The penultimate encounter involves the PCs stopping a mass sacrifice outside the city, and solving numerous unsolved kidnapping cases in the process, while fending off cultists using pistols and fists against their magic and long knives.*The finale is the attempted summoning of their god by the other cult, which began at roughly the same time as the sacrifice. Learning of its location from the defeated cultists, the PCs must race across town in time to stop the summoning.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) city, combat-heavy, deadline, innocent, magic, race, religion, rivalry==Evil Choices*The PCs are contacted by an archaeologist who has found an unusual artifact from the Middle Ages. Covered in strange markings, the artifact also resonates with magical energy. Since the archaeologist brought it back to her lab, strange things have started happening: Several car accidents have occurred nearby, as well as two violent assaults, and she has found dead animals in disused corners of the lab.*Investigating the artifact itself, the PCs discover that it bears the name of an ancient and malevolent creature or entity. Shortly after making this discovery, they're attacked by a group of magically enhanced minions of the creature, suggesting that it's still active in the world and that the artifact is important to it somehow.*After the attack, the PCs are approached by a woman who offers to pay them a large sum of money for the artifact. She knows far too much about the object, which likely spooks the PCs, and if they refuse her offer she attacks them. They quickly discover that she is much more powerful than they are, and are forced to flee.*Having bought themselves some breathing room, the PCs can further research the artifact. They find out that it was constructed specifically to destroy the ancient creature whose minions attacked them earlier. Drawn by the artifact, cult followers of the ancient creature attack them in their new hideout, forcing them to go on the run again.*They're then visited a second time by the woman, who reveals that she is a vessel for a younger rival of the ancient creature. This time, she offers to help them use the artifact to destroy the ancient creature. The PCs' research has given them enough background information to know what's at stake here: Ridding the world of the ancient creature would be a very good thing indeed, but it would also open up a power vacuum which would be filled by the younger creature. The younger creature would be much less of a threat to the world than the older one, but while she isn't necessarily evil, she has committed her share of atrocities. If they do nothing, one or both of the creatures will destroy them eventually.*What will the PCs do? Making this tough decision-and dealing with the consequences-is the heart of the adventure.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, magic, monster, sandbox, spirit, villain==Weapons Grade*The PCs are in a military town when they hear gunfire from a nearby car dealership. A soldier emerges from the dealership office and opens fire on the cars with a machine gun, his face contorted in rage. Either the PCs take him down or his shooting ignites a car's gas tank, knocking him unconscious.*After a few minutes, police and MPs arrive. The serial number is filed off the machine gun, but it's obviously military issue. The soldier wakes up before being taken away, and is very confused and even apologetic. The dealership had just repossessed his car, and he was furious, but he hadn't planned to retaliate.*That night, an argument breaks out near the PCs. The fight quickly escalates into a savage beating, and the cops and MPs brutally put it down. The PCs may even go berserk in the fight, as if possessed. One of the MPs explodes at the PCs, then apologizes later on, saying that everyone's on edge these days.*The source of the chaos is a new sergeant whose request to be an armorer was denied. He summoned a spirit of violence to do away with the lieutenant who denied his request. The spirit possessed the old armorer and murdered the lieutenant by blowing him up with a hand grenade. The possessed soldier has no idea what happened, but is in jail on murder charges. The sergeant became the new armorer and is selling weapons out of the arms room.*The spirit of violence is now free, seeking anger or aggression upon which it can feed. Its presence will amplify these feelings in anyone who is near, which often leads to increased violence and death. The spirit can also possess an individual, although not easily. It's not terribly intelligent, and it has no goal other than to feed.*Basic investigation reveals that the violence escalated after the lieutenant's death. A brief interview with the suspect shows that he had no idea what he was doing, but that he came to when the grenade went off. The new armorer is defensive and agitated. He has access to the entire armory, including assault rifles, machine guns, anti-tank missiles, mines, grenades, and more, along with very thick walls and doors.*The new armorer serves as the spirit's connection to this world, and he must be killed or subjected to a ritual that breaks the bond before the spirit will leave.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Western*Tags: (KS) investigative, magic, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, spirit==Under the Big Top*Two brothers who are versed in the occult opened a carnival, using their magic and illusions to put on a spectacular show. The brothers got into an argument and one turned the other into a sideshow monster, locking away his intelligence and knowledge.*Years have passed and the PCs have come to the show, the magical nature of which quickly becomes obvious. They see the creature in the sideshow and recognize the intelligence in its eyes. One of the sideshow workers tells the PCs a bland and lifeless tale about how this creature was caught in the woods and only speaks truth when it talks of its sadness. If pressed, the carnie reveals the true story and says that the creature could be returned to normal if a certain book of occult magic were acquired from the carnival owner. The carnie may also be overheard after the show talking to another worker about his plan to steal the book. He might notice the PCs and engage them this way, drawing them into the plot.*If the PCs agree to acquire the book, they must locate it and maneuver around the human brother and those loyal to him. If they don't agree to acquire it, they're targeted by the carnie and those friendly to his cause. Multiple carnival workers, including the sideshow people-who dabble in the occult and have gained certain powers-will make the PCs' lives difficult. The PCs have to run from, fight, or outsmart pursuing carnival workers, but receive help from the faction they have sided with. The other faction will use magic to prevent the PCs from leaving.*The PCs will find that the owner keeps the book hidden in a specific train car at all times. Some workers may suspect its location, and clues can be found in the owner's trailer. The monstrous brother may also try to communicate its location to the PCs. The PCs will either have to fight to get the book or acquire it through stealth. Once the PCs have the book, they can give it to the worker, who then undoes the spell. They can also use it to barter passage away from the carnival, leaving the monster to its confinement. If the monster is returned to his human form, he will use the book to banish the brother and take over the carnival.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Action Horror, Comedy, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) alliance, innocent, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, magic, monster, social, stealth, villain*Adultery==Bark at the Moon*A slew of murders take place in towns across the Midwest,  with each occurrence following the tour route of a popular metal band. The killer is dubbed the "Metal Murderer" by the news media. The band officially denies involvement, but loves the publicity. If the PCs don't have cause to investigate, they can be drawn into the adventure by winning free tickets and backstage passes.*Once at the concert, the PCs can get in through the backstage door, but have to wait in line as security is tight. Groupies are there, desperate to get in, but are being turned away by the guards. The groupies are very friendly once they notice that the PCs have backstage passes. Once backstage, the PCs meet the band, who are talking to an FBI agent about the murders. The drummer appears nervous as he is questioned about his many encounters with groupies. The PCs are asked a few questions by an FBI agent and then sent back out into the audience for the concert.*The concert proceeds without incident until a roadie finds the ravaged body of a security guard backstage. Havoc ensues and the PCs are surrounded by security, as they were backstage before the concert. The PCs and groupies are put in the same room while waiting to be questioned. The groupies seem very anxious and speak in an increasingly low timbre. An FBI agent questions people one by one, but leaves a door unlocked on a smoke break. The groupies sneak out through the door, almost seeming to lope on all fours as they head for the woods. They might even grab one of the PCs and drag them out with their supernatural strength.*The PCs find the groupies in a clearing with the drummer. The groupies transform into werewolves and attack the PCs, attempting to feed. The drummer struggles, but changes as well. If the PCs don't follow, this combat could take place as the PCs are questioned by the FBI again, this time in the presence of the drummer-who unwillingly succumbs to his new bestial side and transforms in front of everyone.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) investigative, monster, social, twist, villain==Undying Love*The PCs are asked to investigate a grisly murder in a quiet suburban neighborhood: A husband and wife were bitten repeatedly and then ripped apart, and several of their organs are missing. The taint of the supernatural can be found in the house, as well as in the shed out back; the front door was battered in, and there are clumps of dirt scattered throughout the house. The next night, a woman is killed in a nearby architect's office. The scene is similar: The building's glass door was broken, and the woman was ripped apart and is missing organs. There are also bloody fingerprints all over her computer's keyboard. A search of the computer shows that someone was looking up records on one of the architecture firm's employees, another woman. Investigating her, the PCs discover that she was the previous owner of the house where the first murders took place. She was widowed a year ago, and her husband was a known member of a religious cult who died under mysterious circumstances. The widow remarried a few months ago, sold her old house, and moved in with her new husband.*When the PCs arrive at the new house, they find the door broken down and the woman's new husband badly wounded. He's alive, but hysterical, and raves that some kind of zombie took his wife. He says she pleaded with the zombie to spare him (which it did), and that the zombie then took the couple's car and drove away with the wife. He has no idea where they went.*By tracking the woman's cell phone, talking to her friends, or another means, the PCs will learn that the woman and her former husband had a special camping spot in the nearby woods. Their favorite campsite was not far from where the husband performed his dark rituals, and he has taken his wife there in order to transform her into a zombie. After he kills her and performs the appropriate ritual, the two of them can be together forever.*When the PCs arrive, the wife is mortally wounded but not yet dead. They must destroy the zombie husband, and as many of his zombie allies-fellow cultists-as you like, before she dies, and then give her the first aid she needs to make it to a hospital. The cult, as well as any surviving zombies, can be used in future adventures.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp*Tags: (PV) investigative, monster, religion, villain==Relentless Ghosts*A married serial killer has been murdering local women  for years, and his wife has deliberately turned a blind eye to his crimes-he plies her with money and jewelry, and she looks the other way. Over the years, many of his victims have returned as ghosts, and driven by rage they have begun to haunt the couple. The killer has no connection to the spirit world and is utterly oblivious, but his wife comes from a long line of mediums and is terrified by the ghosts. She seeks out the PCs to help her end the haunting.*She suggests that the PCs stay the night in her mansion, so that they can experience the haunting for themselves. Several ghosts put in an indirect appearance, knocking vases off of shelves and cracking windows, and the woman is terrified. Play up the creepiness of the scene, and the sense that the ghosts are holding back-which they are, because they don't yet know what to make of the PCs.*Researching the phenomena suggests a few options: The ghosts are seeking justice, are tied to the site by a past trauma, or are trying to tell the woman something. All are true, in a way. The following night, the PCs are personally haunted. The ghosts tear partially formed words into wallpaper, turn bathwater into blood, and generally convey their displeasure. All of the signs point to a murder or murders as the genesis of the haunting.*Returning to the woman, the PCs find her in a coma, traumatized by the previous night's haunting. Her husband appears, wearing bandages in several places. At first he insists he was in a car accident, but it emerges that he was actually wounded during the haunting. He implores the PCs to stay the night again, and to try to end the haunting so that his wife will recover.*That night, all hell breaks loose. Ghosts run rampant, and the wife arises-still comatose-and begins speaking cryptically about "the women" and "all these years." The husband disappears partway through the night, reappearing at the climax of the adventure, when he tries to split the PCs up and kill them one by one. If he and his wife are brought to justice, the haunting will cease, and the PCs will be able to lead the police to clues to years of serial murders.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) betrayal, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, social, spirit, twist, villain==Masked Ball*Prior to this adventure, one of the PCs had a fling with a spirited and attractive person; the plot assumes a male PC and a female companion, but neither party's gender is important to the adventure.*As supernatural investigators, the PCs are called in on a possession. A little girl has been possessed by a foul-mouthed and very sexually aware spirit. As the PCs investigate and exorcise the spirit, she taunts and teases them all, except for the PC who had the fling. To him, she languidly winks and says, "Oh, I've heard all about you" The demon is exorcised, and the little girl is safe.*Next, an adult toy store is haunted by a poltergeist, which uses the toys to attack anyone who enters. The spirit can be banished, but the PC who had the fling receives special attention before it goes.*Later, the PCs are called to a topless bar where the dancers have reported a leering face staring back out of the mirror at them. As the PCs investigate the place, most of the dancers smile and wave at the PC who had the fling, as if they know him. Apparently someone matching his appearance, name, and mannerisms has been a regular customer recently.*The topless bar haunting is by another lust spirit, but he's willing to speak to the party. He doesn't want to be banished, and offers valuable information to the PCs if they'll let him stick around a little longer.*Apparently, the PC had a fling with an erotic spirit who is the longtime lover of a prankster spirit. She was jealous of all the time her lover's attention was directed elsewhere, and wanted to stir up some jealousy by taking a mortal lover. She told a few of her friends, and they all wanted in on the fun.*The prankster spirit finds out about his partner's fling, and he'll come after the PCs with a vengeance. He's not sure which one was responsible, but will try to take out his anger on all of them through flat tires, crashed hard drives, etc. The PCs might be able to convince him that it's not their fault; they can also try to banish him or just endure his wrath.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, city, investigative, mature themes, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit==Bottled Lust*A $75 perfume that has recently hit the market makes good  on all of its claims: The "designer pheromones" it contains really do short-circuit people's self-restraint and reduce them to lustful caricatures of their former selves. The secret is in the pheromones, which are actually a blend of secretions from two demons, a succubus and an incubus.*The PCs are hired by a local clergyman who claims that the perfume is demonic in nature. He offers proof: When he uncorks a bottle and blesses it, dark smoke wafts from the bottle and the acrid stench of brimstone fills the room. He wants the PCs to put a stop to the perfume's manufacture for good.*The first step is investigating the plant where the perfume is produced. The company doesn't offer tours of the plant, not wanting to give away any of their proprietary processes, but breaking and entering will allow the PCs to poke around. Exploring the plant, the PCs find that everything is on the up-and-up, with one exception: The final ingredient is delivered in plastic jugs marked with "S" or "I," which appear to come from a small town halfway across the country; none is in stock at the moment. While in the plant, the PCs are attacked by unnaturally lustful guard dogs.*Traveling to the town, the PCs find an insular community where few townsfolk will even talk to them; the ones that do say nothing about the perfume. There are signs of fraying spousal relationships all around, and everyone seems to be on edge. The PCs discover that several municipal projects underway are funded by private donations from a local estate owner. Scouting the estate, the PCs all feel unusually lustful-even at a distance of a hundred yards from the place.*Once inside, the PCs are nearly overwhelmed with lust, perhaps even for each other. If they can remain in control or block the pheromones, the PCs will find the estate all but deserted due to the danger of the pheromones. The main floor houses a high-tech chemistry lab, which the PCs can disable by a variety of means. The chemists who work there will fight back, but if the seals around the lab are breached they will instead become dangerously lustful.*The two demons are housed in the basement, and can be banished or destroyed as best befits your campaign. They'll fight the PCs using their overwhelming sexuality, attempting to seduce PCs, bewitch PCs into copulating with each other, or drive the PCs mad with lust. Once the lab and the demons are out of commission, the perfume can no longer be manufactured.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) innocent, investigative, isolated area, madness, magic, mature themes, monster, religion, roleplaying-heavy, villain*Crimes of Love==All in the Family*A string of bold break-ins has plagued the city for several weeks. Reinforced doors are kicked in and heavy safes are hauled off, but little evidence is left behind. During the last break-in, a night watchman was thrown through a wall and now lies in a coma.*The perpetrators are part of an extremely inbred family, and the two oldest sons' genetic mutations have made them impervious to pain and strong as oxen. They and their mother, a 60-year-old wheelchair-bound invalid, have been trying to steal enough money to save their farmland from foreclosure. The four other siblings have super-sensitive hearing and touch, keen eyesight, and the ability to run extremely fast. All of them have below-average intelligence save the mother, who is whip-smart.*The brothers commit their crimes while the mother keeps watch from her pickup truck/camper. So far, they've stolen enough bonds and such to pay off the debt, but all of the children are illiterate and therefore only recognize cash.*The PCs will either stumble upon or be called to a break-in. The brothers will ignore them if they don't interfere with the robbery and will toss them aside if they do. Only lethal attacks will take them down, but the mother has a pistol just in case. The truck is very fast and the mother was once a bootlegger, so they may well get away.*If the PCs are incapacitated, the family strikes again, giving them another chance to follow the truck. It heads out of the city and down back roads to a well-defended compound. The mother is very shrewd, and won't give up any information, but the truck can be traced back to their compound.*The five siblings in the compound are on alert and will try to defend themselves, but won't have the mother to guide them. They can be tricked or fought, but can't be talked down or easily bargained with, and will defend their land with their lives. On the compound are many opened safes, most of which still hold their contents, less the cash.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, investigative, tactical planning, trade==Honor-Bound*In ancient Japan, two noble lovers were separated by the woman's arranged marriage to a respected samurai. They joined secretly many times, and the woman bore two children. The samurai husband discovered the indiscretion and attacked his wife's lover. The husband was fatally wounded, but he cried out a curse upon his wife's children before he died. An oni answered his call and has fulfilled the curse ever since.*In the present day, one of the children's descendants has awakened this demon spirit with an act of adultery. The demon is relentless in its pursuit of its enemy's descendants, stalking and killing each of them. The PCs may become involved if a member of the party is of the cursed bloodline or is a lover of the descendant who committed the adultery. They may also witness a demonic attack and decide to investigate.*The demon's corporeality waxes and wanes with the moonlight. In darkness, it can walk through walls; in moonlight, its sword becomes solid. If in a prolonged immaterial state, it can still whisper, tempt, and torment. An encounter with the demon should involve one of the descendants, who is familiar with the story of the curse. The descendant should survive just long enough to relay the story before she falls to the demon's vengeful blade.*The PCs then find enough clues among the descendant's belongings to lead them to others who are marked for death. Occult research should show a few ways to ward off demons, and reveal that each kill makes the demon stronger and less dependent on moonlight. After this, introduce a scene where the demon can make a few attacks without being in moonlight.*The demon will take a different descendant if one is too well-guarded. The PCs should learn this and realize that they won't be able to protect them all. They should also learn that the only way to stop the demon is with a sword that has tasted the demon's true bloodline. Some of the descendants might have true blood, and it only needs a taste. In the final climactic battle, the PCs, armed with their one hope of defeating the demon, are pitted against the spirit and its strengthened powers.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) deadline, escort mission, innocent, investigative, magic, sandbox, spirit, tactical planning, villain==The Madame of Whispers*The PCs are contacted by a powerful entity who watches over all of the city's male and female "professional companions"-the patron spirit of prostitutes. In exchange for paying homage to the spirit, the city's prostitutes gain protection from violence and disease, as well as the promise of wealth by way of better clients. The spirit has come to the PCs to ask for their aid, as it cannot interact directly with the world.*Recently, a number of the spirit's followers have died due to what the police are calling overdoses. The spirit is certain that these prostitutes were clean, and that the police are just trying to avoid investigating their murders. It asks the PCs to find out who is killing its followers, and offers to provide the PCs with important information regarding a topic of interest to them, such as a larger investigation. The spirit collects all of the secrets that its followers hear from their clients, and it has amassed a wealth of knowledge about notable figures, the local government, and even the supernatural.*Investigating the deaths, the PCs find that all of the prostitutes did indeed die of an overdose of opiates. Strangely, however, every corpse is almost entirely devoid of spiritual energy-their souls were all taken before they died. Clever detective work uncovers the fact that the bodies were all found within the dispatch range of a local ambulance company.*The man who has been killing the prostitutes is a dark alchemist who moonlights as a paramedic. He has created an elixir that, if administered during sex, releases a person's soul from the body. He has been injecting prostitutes with a mixture of heroin and his elixir, and then stealing their souls.*After talking to local prostitutes, who can provide a description of the killer, the PCs track him down to his lab. They arrive shortly after he has summoned a powerful supernatural entity using the stolen souls as an ingredient in the ritual, and the PCs must defeat them both in order to fulfill their bargain with the patron spirit.*If you like, this plot can be trimmed down and used as a side plot during a larger adventure: When the PCs hit a wall during an investigation and need information to proceed, the spirit can provide an interesting means of acquiring that information.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) investigative, magic, mass combat, mature themes, monster, spirit, villain==The Possessors*The PCs come upon an accident: A school bus has been run off of the road by a collision with an oncoming SUV. The bus driver is concussed and several children are gravely wounded; the SUV driver was killed on impact. After the wounded children have been tended to, two others, who have only minor bruises, tell the PCs that they're worried: They saw an adult get on the bus after the crash, and he was acting strange. He grabbed a child sitting near the front of the bus and led him away-even though every kid knows not to trust strangers. There was also a greenish mist that flowed out of the SUV and into the bus behind the adult-but that was just boiling windshield wiper fluid, right?*When the PCs find the pair's trail, they can catch up with them fairly easily. They walk together at a slow pace, utterly silent but moving in perfect coordination. When confronted, the adult explains that he is an alien from a distant planet. His mate needed a host, as the previous host was killed in the collision. The only available hosts were children, but children are poor containers for his kind: Complex emotions sustain his species, and children have limited emotional experience. Without intervention, the possessed child will die within a few days, releasing the alien-as a green mist-to find a new host.*The aliens were fleeing assassins-also aliens, but of a different race-who had been tracking them for some time. The assassins have likely arrived at the crash site by now; the aliens say that the killers can easily wipe them out, along with the PCs. They ask for the party's help.*The assassins can also possess humans, and they currently inhabit two policemen. They're already on the PCs' trail, accompanied by innocent police and EMTs, and the pair will attack the aliens and the PCs. The PCs must get away without killing any innocent civilians. Once they're safe, the larger problem remains: The alien in the child's body needs a new host, or both of them will die. The PCs can find a willing host, volunteer one of their own bodies as a temporary host, or solve this problem by a variety of other means.*Using the resources of the police department, the assassins will track them down for a final confrontation. This time they mean to kill everyone, the PCs included, and again they will confuse the situation by involving innocents.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, escort mission, innocent, monster, race, social, spirit, villain==Too Far from Heaven, Too Near to Hell*An angel was cast out of heaven for falling from God's  grace, but it wasn't sent to hell. Neither fallen nor angelic, the angel roams the city, trying to find a way to return to God's presence. Its mind fractured by its partial fall, the angel settles on a twisted solution: killing those who it perceives to have forsaken God.*It starts small, killing an isolated apostate or two. This is an ideal entry point for the PCs, as the killings defy categorization: No forensic evidence whatsoever is present at the crime scene. The victims appear to have been killed by a paralytic effect that spread rapidly from their heads all the way down to their toes. They were killed by the angel's touch.*The next to die is a priest; his body is partially paralyzed, but his death was actually caused by a hammer blow. A hammer is at the scene, but is devoid of prints. The angel decided to experiment with a different murder method, and has found that it prefers the mundane approach. Clues in the priest's home suggest that the perpetrator might be targeting his church.*The church's new pastor is a man with an angelic countenance, around whom minor supernatural effects seem to occur: prayer candles light themselves, parishioners walk a bit easier despite their ailments. Play up the idea that he might actually be an angel, sent to reassure the flock after the murder of the pastor. He guides the PCs to the worst sinner in his church, a man who fits a possible profile for the killer-a doctor with access to poisons, including paralyzing agents, who resents the church because his faith didn't prevent one of his children from dying in a terrible accident.*The pastor invites the PCs to stake out the church. Driven by the angel's telepathic urgings, the doctor breaks into the church and tries to kill the PCs using an arsenal of poison-filled syringes. Signs of mental control can be easily spotted, and most groups will be suspicious of the pastor by this point. When the PCs return to confront or spy on the pastor, the angel locks the church and tries to burn the occupants alive. The PCs must evacuate the parishioners and pacify the angel-*a strange and formidable foe.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) city, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, religion, social, spirit, villain*Discovery of the Dishonor of a Loved One==Zombies?*A deadly flu outbreak in a local prison has killed dozens of  inmates, including some of the region's worst offenders. While their bodies are in the morgue, malicious spirits claim six of the corpses for their own, animating them so that they can glory in the sins of the flesh. After the bodies go missing, the family of one of the missing prisoners involves the PCs, fearing that something awful has been done to the prisoner's body. Investigating the morgue, the PCs find signs of an unusual robbery: smashed body storage locker doors, torn-open body bags, and locked doors broken from the inside.*The reanimated corpses aren't zombies, they're corpses inhabited by evil spirits. The resulting creatures have the immunities of zombies and can only be killed by massive trauma, although headshots have no special effect as they don't need their brains to function. They also possess much of the intelligence that they had in life.*In order to stop them, the PCs must first figure out what they are-aided by the library and their contacts-and then narrow down where they rest during the day (they prefer to venture out at night, when people are more easily scared-and their fear tastes better). The lore points to graveyards, and in exploring the town cemetery the PCs find several disturbed graves. They fight two "zombies" in an aboveground crypt, and discover much about their true nature in the process. When they kill them, the spirits manifest visibly and dive into nearby graves-where they inhabit new bodies.*As the PCs debate whether or not to dig up the graves to get at the spirits, the spirits quietly seep through the earth, moving from body to body, and escape. The next night, they mount an attack on the PCs (either together or alone, whichever fits your game best).*To destroy the spirits, the PCs must isolate them in an area with no corpses to possess, and then perform a ritual to banish them from the world. This could involve more than one scene, as the PCs first deduce the ritual needed to banish them, and then figure out how to get the spirit-creatures alone so that the ritual can be performed.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) innocent, investigative, magic, monster, race, spirit, tactical planning, twist, villain==Heresy of Heredity*In a large city, several babies have recently been born  covered in small scales. The births are covered up and the children are discarded. To introduce this adventure, have one of the PCs observe a bald man throwing away a package in a dumpster. A woman was following the bald man, and pulls the package out of the dumpster, cradling the dead baby and crying. The paper the baby was wrapped in talks about a reporter who was shot in gangland violence. The woman is the baby's mother; the father is a senator who has a recessive mutation.*Soon enough, the PCs begin to feel that they're being watched and can see evidence of the bald man and his agents trailing them. A reporter from a newspaper who has been investigating the senator contacts the PCs. He has some information about the births, but needs more connections to complete the story. He knows of a nurse who's willing to talk, but feels that if she's seen talking to a reporter, her life may be endangered. He asks the PCs to go on his behalf, offering them large amounts of money and favors.*The nurse can identify the bald man and has a friend who knows of three other babies that were taken from a different hospital. The PCs are given the names and addresses of the mothers. Visiting them reveals the pattern. Three different girls say the only person they were with was a local senator. Soon after, they're found dead.*While investigating, the PCs are harassed and followed. If they confront their tails, a fight occurs. If the PCs win, information is revealed about the bald man and the senator. The PCs might acquire a keycard to the senator's office from one of them. At the senator's office, the PCs are discovered by the bald man and some thugs. If the PCs lose this fight, they're taken to the senator. The senator tries to bribe the PCs into hiding his indiscretions, and then threatens them with jail time.*While talking, the senator quietly pulls a gun. He tries to kill one of the PCs quickly, and his agent and another guard try to take out the other PCs. This shouldn't be a combat in the fair sense, but an ambush that should end very quickly if the PCs don't realize they're being set up.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (JA) difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, villain==Shadows of Blood*A local bookstore has been vandalized with sexually  explicit graffiti, and the interior is trashed: Thugs forced the door, toppled bookcases, and trampled dozens of books into the floor. The bookstore owner hires the PCs to find the perpetrators; she assumes her store was targeted because she's a lesbian. She isn't rich, but can offer first editions and occult books that might appeal to them as payment. Her lover, an excellent violinist, was asleep upstairs when the thugs broke in. The violinist is shy, and several years younger than the bookstore owner; they make a cute couple.*The violinist quietly buttonholes one of the PCs and confides that she recognized one of the thugs' voices: a foreman for a construction crew that does work for her father's company. Confronting the foreman or his crew yields clumsy denials. Threats, pretending to approve of the thugs' crime, or respect earned from a fight will get the foreman to confess to ransacking the store. He insists that it was his idea: When he saw the bookstore owner "kissing a girl" and told the owner to cut it out, she flipped him off. If appropriately persuaded, his crew will reveal that he was bribed by a man matching the description of the violinist's father.*When the foreman reports the PCs' investigation, the violinist's father uses a dark ritual from a book that his thugs stole at his behest during the break-in. A 17-foot-long insect-looking something like a twisted cross between a moth and a praying mantis-swoops down on the PCs, staining the air around it like a gasoline spill. Its long tongue smears paralytic venom across its victims and its body spines impale its prey.*When the PCs go back to see the bookstore owner, she is silently mutilating herself with a penknife. She too has been a victim of the father's dark arts: A similar, smaller creature attacked her, and the horror of the winged assailant's touch completely unhinged her-she's cutting out the taint it left behind.*Attacking the father directly is dangerous: Summoned creatures lair in his backyard like postmodern statues. They respond to his call, and can be deadly foes. The largest is another insectile monster with hypnotic wings and a tongue that burns like motor oil.*For a dark twist, make the violinist a willing partner in the father's plot to steal the book and summon the monsters. She was surprised to find that she had fallen in love with the bookstore owner, and tried to stop her father; she feels tremendous guilt and horror over what she has done.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) combat-heavy, innocent, madness, magic, monster, twist, villain==Crossroads Blues*A friend or new client contacts the PCs with a request.  His uncle made custom guitars before succumbing to madness and killing himself, and the current owner of one of the guitars thinks it's possessed. Would the PCs meet with the owner?*It turns out that the owner is a famous heavy metal guitarist. At one point in the meeting, he leans in and says, "This is all theater; I'm not into the devil at all. But my guitar is." He bought a guitar from the estate of a rock star who died young, and has been having nightmares ever since. While dying young isn't unusual in the business, the guitarist now suspects that the guitar somehow influenced the young rocker and caused his death. The guitar does have an evil look to it, and spiritually or psychically sensitive characters will sense its malevolence.*The uncle's guitar shop (held in perpetuity per his will) has occult designs all over the walls and is home to a black altar that still smells of sulfur and blood. Seeing this, the nephew insists that the cursed guitars be cleansed or destroyed, and volunteers his extensive inheritance to do so. To cleanse the guitars, they must be disassembled, blessed, washed in holy water or sacred oil, and then reassembled.*Some of the owners are willing to sell their guitars outright, others hold out for a premium, and some are eager to have their instruments cleansed. But a few holdouts are difficult to deal with. One toxic example is well along the short road to hell, and plays the guitar at every show. He's convinced that the guitar is responsible for his success and refuses to part with it. Telling him about the dark rituals involved in the guitar's making only encourages him: "A pact with the devil? Where do I sign?"*Another holdout is a reclusive and paranoid former rock star who keeps his guitar safely locked away in his mansion. His business manager is concerned about his obsession with the guitar, and is willing to work with the PCs if they can create some kind of distraction for the security guards.*The last guitar is prominently displayed on the wall of a rock and roll casino in Las Vegas. The owners of the casino are suing each other, so it can't legally be touched until the suits are settled.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Western*Tags: (KS) alliance, bearers, city, investigative, magic, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, spirit, travel==Ritual Secrets*The PCs are involved in an ongoing investigation of a series of supernatural signs and occurrences that all point to the imminent arrival of a powerful creature or entity, and they've just made a breakthrough. After determining that a cult has been preparing a ritual to deliver the entity into our world, the PCs have discovered the location of the final ritual at last.*Traveling there, they fight a desperate battle with the cultists and prevail-but not before the cult is able to weaken the barrier that protects our world. The creature will breach the barrier in a relatively short time, and all of the cult members who understood the ritual (and who might be able to reverse it) fled or died during the battle.*Scrambling for clues, the PCs investigate the cult's headquarters and turn up several dark tomes. One volume contains a picture of the cult from several years ago; in it, the cult is attempting the same summoning ritual-and one of the PCs' loved ones (a father, mother, spouse, or someone similarly close) is among the cult members performing the ritual. The PC had no idea that their loved one was once involved with this cult.*The PC must confront the loved one about his dark past-a secret that the loved one hoped he would never have to reveal. The loved one will confess that he was the sole survivor of the summoning in the picture, and was able to reverse the ritual and keep the entity from entering our world.*With much fear and trepidation, the loved one will assist the PCs in re-creating the ritual to seal the barrier that was weakened by the cult's recent summoning attempt. As the PCs work together with the loved one to try to banish the creature for good, it projects images of the loved one's dark past and uses other psychological and supernatural tricks to try and break their concentration. Can the PCs and the loved one maintain their composure long enough to complete the ritual? And how will the relationship between the key PC and the loved one change in the aftermath?*This adventure is more about the interaction between the PCs and the loved one than anything else: Play up the dialog and really emphasize the roleplaying aspects of this scenario. Also, be careful in your selection of the PC whose loved one was involved with the cult; some players don't take well to having key NPCs that they introduced into the game altered in this way, while others absolutely love it.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PV) combat-heavy, deadline, investigative, magic, monster, race, religion, roleplaying-heavy*Obstacles to Love==Here Comes the Bride*A wealthy dilettante has decided to marry for love, much  to the consternation of his mother, who had hoped for a different daughter-in-law. As this is a mob family, the prospective mother-in-law arranged for an accident. The new wife had a brake failure on her way to the family mansion during a rainstorm and fatally crashed.*The dilettante has become a recluse, but the wedding was planned for the Fourth of July weekend and the family is still hosting a party at the mansion. The PCs have been invited as guests. Unfortunately for the prospective mother-in-law, the bride won't take no for an answer and has returned from the grave. As her hatred extends to the entire "family," she's killing anyone that gets in her way.*In life, the bride was a botanist, and in death she can control and manipulate plants. Her own body is actually animated and nurtured by plants. The bride uses this power to isolate the mansion and slaughter bodyguards, family members, and guests until she can get to her lover and convince him to declare his love in front of his mother; after that, she'll kill him so that they can be together in the afterlife.*The PCs have to survive the night. Once the bride's motives are revealed (through a sance, unless the PCs have appropriate psychic powers), the PCs either have to kill the mother, depriving the bride of her vengeance, or kill the dilettante son. A third option is to kill the bride, though this won't be easy.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) difficult choice, isolated area, roleplaying-heavy, spirit==Poisoned Heart*The PCs are contacted by a friend who is in urgent need of their help: His fiance has been hospitalized, and he suspects that something more than a mundane ailment is at work. He recently purchased a necklace for her, and as soon as she put it on she collapsed in agonizing pain. After several days of testing, her doctors couldn't find the cause of her pain; all they know is that when the PCs' friend is nearby, her condition becomes dire. As long as he stays away from his fiance, she remains stable. They also found that the necklace cannot be removed.*Visiting the woman, the PCs detect an aura of magic: A curse has been placed upon her. If they try to remove the necklace, they too will find this to be impossible-and doing so worsens her condition. If they test whether their friend's presence also makes her condition worse, they find that it does.*Tracking down the necklace's original seller, they learn that he buys jewelry from a young homeless woman who comes by from time to time; the pieces are excellent and her prices are low, and he's never asked questions. The PCs can find the woman in a nearby park, crafting another necklace.*When confronted, she'll tell the PCs that she created the necklace and placed the curse upon it because their friend's fiance is responsible for killing her husband. Her husband worked for the fiance, and last year she sent him oversees into a war zone, where he was killed. The company's minimal, unethical, and illegal insurance policy paid out almost nothing, and the necklace crafter was ruined. She became homeless, and after some time on the streets she was befriended by a malevolent spirit who taught her magic.*The PCs investigate the company where the fiance works, and they discover a cover-up. The homeless woman's husband requested the overseas assignment as a means of earning a promotion, and while the fiance didn't think he had enough experience to handle it, she sent him anyway. When this is exposed, the company will fire the fiance and award the homeless woman the money she deserves.*After this, the homeless woman agrees to remove the curse, but the spirit won't let her: Craving only suffering, it attacks her and anyone around her. She can't stop it on her own, and the PCs will have to help in order for her to survive. Once the spirit is defeated, she'll remove the curse, but the PCs' relationship with their friend may be permanently damaged despite this.*Depending on your campaign, the fiance could become a recurring enemy, seeking revenge on the PCs for exposing her and getting her fired from her job.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) investigative, magic, relationship hook, spirit, villain==The Show Must Go On*A person in the street stops what he's doing and speaks a  line from a play. He then shakes his head as if to clear out a small fog and goes about his business. This occurs several times over, with the affected reciting more lines each time. People begin saying lines to each other, and eventually everyone stops what they're doing and begins to move as per stage blocking. All of this behavior is the work of the ghosts of a troupe of actors who died in a theater fire, and who have now begun to take over people in the streets and re-enact the play they were performing when they died.*As this continues, an old woman can be overheard saying she loves this play, but it is a pity when the girl dies. This ominous portent should be enough to incite action-the person saying the girl's lines will likely die if nothing is done. This could be an innocent bystander (a child, for added impact), or even one of the PCs.*Research reveals that the play was being put on in a local theater that burned down right at the spot where the lines are being performed. Few pieces of it remain, but some are on display at a small museum of local history. The closer it gets to the anniversary of the fire, the more people are being overtaken. The PCs begin to see mist and fog just before the scenes continue, but few others seem to notice. The lines and scenes become more real; the people start to look like they're dressed in period clothing. The moment of death for at least one person is fast approaching.*The possibility should be introduced that if the fatal fire is part of this ghostly re-enactment, more than one person may die. The PCs can prevent this by destroying the artifacts that are holding the spirits to the world. Destroying the pieces in the local history museum will have no effect, as one more piece exists.*It's held by an old man who is watching the play go on from his window in a nearby apartment. He was the stage manager for the original play and has cast a spell on a prop he owns, summoning the actors' spirits. He wants to see the play one more time, no matter the cost. Destroying the prop will end the spell and the ghosts will be free.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Romance, Supernatural, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) city, deadline, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, roleplaying-heavy, social, twist, villain==A Love That Will Never Be*A creature banished from the faerie world-a dark fey-* has been trapped in our world for centuries, and has grown lonely once again. As it does every few decades, it has begun to seek out a human companion by kidnapping attractive young men and women (either will suffice). The creature can assume human form for a few hours a day, changing appearance each time. When it brings a potential companion back to its lair, it "plays" with them for a time to see if they can survive its attentions. Thus far, none have survived.*The creature is genuinely seeking love, but actually finding it will be almost impossible. If the PCs don't stop the dark fey, it will continue to kidnap and kill innocent people until it gives up for another few decades. The PCs should meet the fey before knowing what it is-casually, and ideally as part of another scenario-and then become involved in this adventure.*Several disappearances have happened at the same club, making the place a good starting point. Watching the club for a few nights, the PCs will witness a young woman slipping something in a patron's drink and then trying to abduct him. If confronted, the fey will use its powers to escape. Canvassing the club is useless, as the fey never looks the same two nights in a row-except that a recently abducted patron was able to get away.*Visiting her, they get enough clues to lead them to the dark fey's lair. Exploring the lair while the fey is absent, they find the abductees and the bodies of dozens of other former "candidates." Each describes the fey differently in their initial encounter, but they all describe its true form the same way: an androgynous, waif-thin creature with stubby horns, wreathed in black mist. It returns while the PCs are in its lair, observes them briefly, and flees.*Now things switch into cat-and-mouse mode, with the PCs hunting the fey and vice versa; the framework of the following scene or scenes will depend on your group. The fey will use its powers to good effect, and now that they know what it is the PCs will learn of ways to destroy it (such as cold iron). The final confrontation should reveal why the fey was kidnapping people, and give the PCs a chance to drive it from our world forever.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) city, innocent, investigative, magic, monster, sandbox, twist, villain*An Enemy Loved==Monstrous Commitment*The PCs are hunting a supernatural creature that has been attacking people throughout the city for the past several nights. They track the creature to an abandoned church, but are surprised to find it caught in a trap. Before they can act, they're ambushed by a lone assailant, giving the creature time to escape the trap and flee the scene. Their attacker surrenders as soon as the creature is gone.*Their attacker, a man, is angry with the PCs. He blames them for interfering with his efforts to capture the creature, and attempts to leave. If the PCs let him go, the next time they corner the creature they will again find that he has beaten them to it. When confronted, he'll reveal that the creature is actually his wife, who was transformed into her current shape after being attacked in the park about a week ago. He's been trying to capture her ever since, and he asks the PCs for their help.*The creature should be a supernatural predator capable of transforming those she attacks into more of her own kind (a werewolf or vampire, for example). Thus far, the husband has succeeded in scaring her off before she could kill or transform anyone. He hopes that the PCs can aid him in restoring her to her true form.*This is a sandbox adventure: The PCs must decide what to do about the man's wife, which will involve tracking her and setting a better trap (perhaps making more than one attempt). The real meat of this plot is in the relationship between the husband and wife, and what fate she eventually meets at the PCs' hands. Play up this drama, and try to get the PCs as invested in the husband's anguish and the wife's plight as possible.*There are several possible outcomes depending on the PCs' actions and the tone of your game. There could be a cure for the wife's condition, which the PCs can administer; this earns them two grateful new friends. Or perhaps there is no cure, and the wife must be imprisoned, killed, or taken somewhere that she can't do any more harm; if the wife must be destroyed, her husband can be resigned to this or may refuse to believe the PCs, and might actively oppose them. The PCs might also be forced to destroy both the husband and the wife.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, monster, sandbox, tactical planning==Unholy Matrimony*A woman who recently escaped from a cult, now no longer  brainwashed, contacts the PCs for help. She tells them that no one-not the police, not even her family-believes her story, but she swears that it's true. The cult married her to one of the scions of their god, and told her that the scion would arrive on the next holy day, just a few days away, to consummate their marriage. She tells the PCs that she cannot help but love the scion, even though she knows her love isn't real-and that if it shows up, she will go to it willingly.*The cult is incredibly secretive, so if the PCs want to learn more about the scion, the ritual, or how to free the woman, they'll need to break into the cult's facility. The facility is a large warehouse on the outskirts of town, fully functional (and owned by the cult) but with a surprisingly large basement. The woman knows a way in and some details about what the PCs might encounter inside, but not everything.*When they break in, they face several cultists who must be silenced before they can alert the others. The facility is unsettling in its normalcy, except for the central ritual chamber, which the PCs must cross through to reach the library. The library tells them the nature of the scion-a hideous squid-like being-and of the ritual binding the woman to the creature.*Acquiring the components of the counter-ritual is the second encounter in this adventure. The PCs need to convince a scholar at the local university-one who can understand the ancient language used by the cult-to perform the ritual for them. Performing it alerts the cult, however, and cultists head out into the woods and attack them while the PCs are mid-ritual. The party must complete the ritual while under attack, or the binding will be permanent.*Once the woman is free, she wants nothing more than to see the scion destroyed and put the whole affair behind her. She's willing to act as bait, since the scion will still come for her, and the finale of the adventure is a showdown with the scion itself. The PCs can choose the place where it will arrive, though not the time, and plan accordingly.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) deadline, innocent, investigative, magic, monster, siege, stealth, tactical planning, villain==Publish or Perish*At a local university, a professor is struggling to stay afloat  in his department. He's barely published anything of worth in the last seven years, while a female colleague's brilliant research has well surpassed what little he has accomplished. Despite this, she fervently argues on his behalf and has even bribed the university board to keep him on. Secretly, she loves him and goes to great lengths to protect him. The quality of his work continues to decline when his most vocal opponent turns up dead. The PCs can be students at, or otherwise connected to, the university, or may simply need information from the professor's research.*While the PCs investigate the murder, another professor is found dead of a gunshot wound. The body of a janitor who died of acid burns is found stuffed into a closet. The murderer is the struggling professor, seeking revenge on the board and the university for rejecting his work. He uses the female professor's love and vocal support to shield himself and plants evidence that points to her being the murderer.*She should make a viable suspect as her intense love has blinded her to the truth and makes her seem unstable. It's clear that she's willing to go to any lengths to protect her love. Any solid evidence, however, should point to the struggling professor. For instance, access to the type of acid used on the janitor might be available only to him, or forensics may have missed a piece of cloth that matches the professor's jacket.*Once the PCs are fairly sure the male professor is guilty, they receive a note from a "witness" who is scared and wants to meet them in a parking garage. The note says the witness can tell them something that leads directly to the murderer. Once in the garage, the PCs are run down by a car driven by a masked person and are shot at as the person speeds off. The police arrive quickly, but they can't find the driver or the car.*Confronting the male professor will result in a tense standoff when he grabs the female professor as a hostage and threatens to kill her. If the PCs kill the male professor in their attempt to rescue the woman, they will later find her dead by her own hand.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Romance, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling*Tags: (JA) city, innocent, intrigue, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, social, villain==Possessions*This adventure will work best as part of an established campaign, especially one where there's some internal conflict between the PCs.*The PCs are called in to a police station and led to an interrogation viewing room that looks in on a thin, disheveled man in handcuffs. After confirming that none of the PCs know the man, the detective explains that he's the prime suspect in a string of kidnappings and murders that began exactly six months ago, and that he asked for the group by name, address, and phone number.*The detective explains that some of his victims are probably still alive, and the suspect offered to disclose their location if he can speak to the PCs. For the sake of the victims, the detective asks that the PCs speak to the suspect.*The suspect is possessed by a malign spirit that harbors a grudge against the PCs. The spirit has been using the already twisted man to wreak havoc and garner attention, and now wants to exact revenge on the PCs. The spirit can read minds and possess a victim, but not at the same time. It knows many things about the PCs' past, except for the last six months while it possessed the suspect.*The spirit wants to turn the PCs against each other, and uses the fate of the remaining victims as leverage. It reminds the PCs of previous failures and differences of opinion, reveals secrets, mentions possible illegal or unethical activities, etc. Claiming to be sending them to find the surviving victims, the spirit sends the PCs out on missions involving people and places from their past, or gets them into situations that will cause conflict between them.*The spirit's weaknesses lie in its desire for revenge and its lack of knowledge of the PCs' activities over the last six months. Both of these can be turned against it, either through faked conflict between the PCs or by lying about recent events. If the tables are turned on the spirit, it will leave its current host, jump to the detective, and just start shooting.*If the party realizes that they're dealing with a possession instead of a lunatic, they may have more options, from exorcism to trapping the spirit.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) investigative, madness, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, social, spirit, twist, villain*Ambition==Just One More Bite*A new restaurant has opened in town and everyone is  raving about its low fat menu and the delicious spice that flavors most of the food. The critics' reviews are excellent and health nuts are all abuzz. A lone critic says the restaurant is dangerous and has caused illnesses that the health department hushed up. The people who eat there regularly are experiencing great weight loss. The restaurant's popularity soars.*Patrons of the establishment notice that their skin has acquired a slightly orange tone, but most don't care. After sampling the restaurant's fare for an extended time, however, patrons will experience fever dreams. The episodes are spread out and not immediately connected to the restaurant. One of the PCs should become infected to tie them to the adventure.*A hospital trip reveals no obvious cause for the skin discoloration or fevers and the PC is released. The dissenting critic is the best person to visit for more information. They find the critic looking quite ill-pale, shaky, and sweating. The critic reveals that the "spice" is made of the eggs of microscopic parasites and believes there's a chemical compound that would completely eliminate infection. The critic suddenly collapses. His investigations exposed him to too much of the spice, and his condition is critical.*The party must get the chemical to cure the infected PC, whose health is clearly declining. If contacted, the restaurant owner doesn't turn over the chemical or admit any wrongdoing. He has his own findings and clearance from the health board. The city council has been bribed, and there's little to stop the owner from continuing to infect his customers.*The restaurant isn't guarded, but has a security system and a locked basement. Inside the basement is a breeding colony of the bugs. They lay their eggs in dead pigs which are then harvested for the spice. The doorway and the stairs are covered with a white powder that seems to repel and kill the bugs. There's more than enough evidence here to expose the owner, and enough powder to cure the PC.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (JA) alliance, city, deadline, intrigue, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, social, trade==Gallery of Souls*An ambitious, amoral junior curator at a major museum  has learned a magic ritual that allows him to imprison people in artwork. He can trap them in sculptures, as painted figures on ancient vases, and in paintings, and he's begun to use this power on those who stand in the way of his ascent to curator. He has amassed a small collection of trapped foes already, and displays them all proudly in the museum.*Their involvement in a missing persons case (as an extension of law enforcement, or as relatives or friends of the missing person) leads the PCs to the museum, the last place where one missing woman was known to have been seen. They meet the junior curator, who seems happy to help with their investigation, though in truth he's just flaunting his power. He takes them on a brief tour of the area where the woman worked-and the PCs spot her in a painting.*Investigating other missing persons cases reveals that all of the missing have a connection, however tenuous, to the museum. Returning there, the PCs find many of the missing as secondary figures in sculptures, or in the background of paintings. The junior curator tries to dissuade them from investigating further, making himself seem suspicious in the process.*Breaking in after hours, the PCs check out his work area. They find evidence of what he has been doing-but of course no rational person would believe them. They also find out that he must retain a small personal object from every trapped person, or the binding will fail and they'll be released unharmed. While in the museum, the junior curator uses his magic to awaken fearsome creatures from other works of art, which he then sets on the PCs.*The finale is a conflict with the junior curator, who can use magic to try to trap the PCs and to release other guardians. To free the trapped people, the PCs must convince the junior curator to give up their charms, or must find the items themselves, while the museum comes to life around them. If freed, the people emerge from their works of art whole and well, though shaken by the experience.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) city, combat-heavy, investigative, magic, monster, villain==El Dorado's Revenge*One of the PCs finds an old, roughly drawn map of an area in southwestern Texas. It's just an interesting curio until he notices the word "gold." Research reveals that the huge ranch shown on the map is currently for sale, and a call to the real estate agent results in an invitation to stay at the property "as long as you're interested in buying."*It's a full day's journey to the ranch, and the PCs will need their own gear. The ranch house is a sparse cinderblock building a couple hours' drive from the main road. It's definitely off the grid, but has a well and a generator. The owner died a few years back, and the price is negotiable. When asked how he died, the real estate agent mumbles that it was of natural causes, and abruptly leaves for another appointment.*If the PCs stay overnight, a group of illegal immigrants will pass by late at night to refill their canteens at the spigot outside the house, possibly spooking the PCs.*The area marked "gold" is hours away by four-wheel drive vehicle, or a day by foot. The PCs find that it's atop a butte in the middle of a valley. The sheer sides are over 100 feet high, atop 200 feet of cone-a very difficult climb. Nearby, some vultures are picking at the carcass of a deer whose throat has been ripped out.*At night, the legendary chupacabra will come out to hunt. Chupacabra are cunning critters about the size of a huge, hairless dog, with sharp teeth and night vision. They're extremely hard to kill. If the PCs don't chase them off, they'll slash the tires of the PCs' vehicles and then attack.*Atop the butte is a very low structure of adobe brick filled with blown sand. Excavating the sand reveals stairs leading down. A wooden door (from no more than a century ago) opens into a room holding the desiccated remains of Native American warriors, decorated for war, and a stone door. Behind that door is a treasure trove of gold and Native American artifacts.*Disturbing the gold will animate the warriors, and will also animate dozens more in surrounding cemeteries, who may take hours to arrive. All of the dead will pursue and attack anyone bearing the gold.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (KS) combat-heavy, exploration, isolated area, monster, siege, travel==Unlock Your Inner Desires*A book possessed by a malevolent spirit has fallen into the  hands of one of the PCs' minor adversaries. The adversary, who has never exhibited any supernatural powers, begins to display new abilities. Suspicious, the PCs investigate the adversary.*The book senses a person's inner desires and grants them supernatural abilities that they can use to achieve those desires: insight, charm, destructive power, etc. It comes with a price: The book requires its reader to undertake cruel acts in order to satisfy the possessing spirit. Initially, the spirit grants a little bit of power in return for a small act of cruelty under the guise of "reorganizing your life," but over time it will grant greater power in exchange for greater cruelty-leading up to murder. Ultimately, the power that it grants destroys the reader, at which time the book slips back into obscurity until someone else happens across it.*In getting to the bottom of their adversary's newfound powers, the PCs will encounter the adversary and be surprised by the extent of his abilities, perhaps even being forced to flee. They'll also escape a trap set by the adversary using his new authority, perhaps a news story "exposing" the PCs' corruption or a police APB. Investigating the adversary's home, they discover notes about how he was trying "focusing exercises" found within the book. Researching the book, they find that it has been around since the Middle Ages under many names, but always with the same powers and outcome. Finally, they'll catch the adversary in the act of trying to commit murder, but he'll get away thanks to his new powers.*Ultimately, the PCs must face the adversary at the height of his power. While fighting him, the party must also tackle the true threat: the spirit inside the book, which must be destroyed, contained, or banished. It has considerable power, but without a host its abilities are limited; its goal is to get away while still inside the book, preserving the mechanism it has used for so many centuries. If it escapes, it won't forget the PCs, and will come after them with a vengeance. Can the PCs defeat the adversary without killing him, and then contain the spirit before it finds a new host?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) investigative, magic, spirit, villain*Conflict with a God==Divine Crusade*A nationally famous TV preacher devotes an episode of his  show to attacking the PCs, warning of their "dark deeds" and "unholy ways." His rant includes information about the PCs that no one should know, which was revealed to him by his dark god or simply provided by talented allies. The PCs learn of his harangue when an NPC ally of theirs confronts them about the preacher's revelations-and if a friend believes the preacher, they can only imagine what strangers must now think of them.*Next, loyal followers of the preacher harass the PCs, chanting on the sidewalk in front of their home base or confronting them on the street. They're not armed, but several carry cameras; if the PCs are famous, this scene also involves a local reporter and camera crew covering the protest. Those present will spread images of any bad behavior on the PCs' part far and wide.*The best way to fight this public relations disaster is with a public relations campaign, but if they attempt this the PCs will find that talk show hosts refuse their calls, cultists at the local TV station sabotage attempts to get them on the air, sound goes missing for key portions of their interviews, etc. Meanwhile, the backlash against them is growing, and they're being investigated by local law enforcement.*Ultimately, the PCs must deal with the preacher head-on, but this is a tricky proposition. He has numerous bodyguards and is protected by dark powers, and his popularity also acts as a shield. If he dies or disappears, the PCs will be first on the suspect list. Exposing the preacher's cult affiliations would be effective, if the PCs can discover them (perhaps by breaking into his secure mansion). Giving him another target to rail against would also work-he believes that his conflict with the PCs was foretold by his dark god, but perhaps he can be convinced otherwise.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) investigative, relationship hook, religion, social, stealth, villain==The Cold Lands Beckon*A doomsday cult that worships a dark god has hijacked a  science vessel and is planning to sacrifice its crew in Antarctica, at the site of their god's first temple. This mass sacrifice will summon their deity, who will wreak havoc upon the world. The PCs are contacted by a scientist friend who works at a small Antarctic research outpost and asked to help with a problem of an occult nature. While they're traveling to Antarctica, the cult's plans are already underway.*When they arrive in Antarctica after a lengthy (and depending on the time period, perhaps perilous) journey by plane, ship, and then another plane, play up the bitter cold, the forbidding landscape, and the majesty of the place. Their friend shows them the problem that night: faint purple lights glowing in the distance, deeper into the continent-where no researchers or other people are known to be. He says he's tried to find the lights, but they always disappear before he gets very far.*The PCs venture out into the Antarctic plains, but try as they might they can't find the lights. When they narrow down one location where they're certain they saw a light earlier, they find the snow and ice in the area melted away; a strange symbol has been scorched into the ground. Tracking down other lights, they find similar sites-and signs that humans have been there, including tracks that lead further away from the coastline. The symbols form a rough ring around the research base.*When they reach the cultists' base, deep within an ice cavern, they're attacked by cultists wielding harpoons and magic. During the battle, the cultists laughingly inform them that they're too late, and the sacrifice is already on the way. Returning to the base, they find a ship just offshore, with several small dinghies approaching the coast.*The climax is a multi-faceted encounter. The crew of the ship has been mesmerized to do the cultists' bidding, and will complicate matters by attacking the PCs. The PCs can break the trance through magic or other means, gaining allies in the process. The cultists may decide to rush the sacrifice, and attempt it with only those victims who are already ashore-forcing the PCs to decide between saving those aboard the boat, which the cultists scuttle to buy time, and stopping the sacrifice itself.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) combat-heavy, deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, isolated area, magic, race, travel==The Hunter's Grounds*In a remote wooded area, there exists a grove that the locals  call "the Hunter's grounds"-the domain of the god of the hunt. Out of superstition, none of the locals hunt there, even though the most beautiful stags can be glimpsed through the foliage. When five out-of-town businessmen arrived in the area for a hunting trip, they found the locals simple and quaint, and ignored their entreaties not to head into the Hunter's grounds. On the best hunting trip any of them had ever experienced, they each killed a magnificent buck; back home, all five heads were mounted as trophies.*After a week or two, the PCs are contacted by one of the hunters, who fears for his life; he was referred to them by a friend of a friend, who mentioned their expertise in occult matters. He tells the PCs that two of the five hunters were recently killed, and he and his two other friends fear that they're next. When the first one died, his death was considered to be the result of a random, but disturbing, act of violence-made more disturbing because the authorities couldn't find his head. When the second hunter died in exactly the same manner, the remaining three panicked. Two of them hired private security companies for protection; the third, suspecting that there was more to the locals' stories, hired the PCs.*During their investigation, the PCs find that the two murders both bear hallmarks of the supernatural. They also learn that both men were stalked and ran for their lives before they were struck down and beheaded. Research into the Hunter's grounds reveals a rich history of supernatural events in the area, including tales of those who poached the forest later being beheaded. At some point, they'll have to defend their client from an attack by a supernatural creature.*Seeking out a local shaman who lives near the Hunter's grounds, the PCs learns that the only way to appease the god of the hunt is to bring a powerful supernatural creature into the grove for it to pursue. Along with their client, the PCs must track down and capture a suitable creature other than the one that attacked the hunter, and somehow get it to the Hunter's grounds. This will lift the curse.*You can fit the location of the Hunter's grounds into any remote area in your campaign setting, and the god of the hunt can be easily included in most pantheons. The nature of the threats in this adventure can easily be matched to the style of your campaign: For a low-magic game, make both featured creatures natural predators; for a higher-magic game, you will have many options regarding the nature of both creatures.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) isolated area, monster, race==Musical Mayhem*Mad cultists often need a great deal of power to call upon a Creature From Beyond. One such cultist is part of a local band and is using a blend of singing, guitar playing, choreography, and the chanting of the audience to summon this creature, for which he expects to be rewarded. Fortunately, the cultist needs a time of power (full moon, spring equinox, midsummer, etc.) in order to perform the ritual. In the meantime, the band's performances are causing interesting side effects that can clue in the PCs.*When the PCs attend one of the band's concerts, strange things start to happen that play upon certain attendees' fears and emotions. One concertgoer may see ghosts, while another may be able to briefly read her date's mind, not liking what she hears. Another fan might find that she's able to manipulate emotions, causing a rival to flee or making someone fall in lust with her. These events prove fleeting and occur only during two songs. The cultist needs two songs to complete the ritual; he performs one near the beginning of the performance and the second at the encore.*As a red herring, the PCs may spot a supernatural creature at the performance. This creature has nothing to do with the cult and is in the dark about what's going on, but the PCs are likely to investigate the red herring first. This red herring can be used in other ways. For example, a vampire may feed on a victim that the PCs witnessed acting strangely: She was briefly awash with magical energy, which drew the vampire to her.*The PCs will probably want to investigate the band, as well. Note that depending on whom you choose to be the cultist, the band members may be completely unaware of what's going on. The cultist could be their songwriter, choreographer, or manager. If the cultist catches wind of the investigation, he may have a few tricks up his sleeve to get rid of the pesky PCs before the final performance.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) deadline, epic impact, investigative, magic, monster, villain==Vacation by the Beach*The PCs are on a well-deserved vacation at a lakeside resort. Unfortunately, the resort is home to a monstrous creature seeking to spawn. The vacation starts normally but soon takes an odd turn. One night, all of the drinks turn green, but the staff doesn't acknowledge the change. A person admitted to the infirmary for food poisoning comes crawling out, screaming. The piano player comments on these oddities to the PCs, and the next night the piano player is nowhere to be found.*Many of the staff and guests go missing. The boathouse is closed and the lake is fenced off. The place feels vacant and the staff looks gaunt and tired. If anyone is questioned, they'll explain that they're hung over from the incredible nightly boathouse parties and suggest that the PCs attend.*That night, the PCs are attacked by strange scuttling things that quickly run away. The PCs realize no one is around to report the incident to, but see a party going on down at the fenced-in lake. The PCs also notice staff members patrolling the grounds with crude weapons and flashlights. The staff can be heard talking about the PCs and will attempt to capture the party if they spot them. The PCs can easily escape the patrol but will find outgoing communication disabled.*At the lake party, the resort manager can be seen chanting and preaching to the assembled. The lake is bubbling, spewing forth more of the scuttling creatures that attacked the PCs earlier. The longer he preaches, the more creatures bubble up. These are the spawn of the lake beast and will fight the PCs if they attempt to stop the ritual. The manager preaches about corrupting a holy object that is held on a pedestal before the masses. He says it must not touch the spirit of the lake until the corruption is complete. The missing guests are seen at the lake edges, haggard and tired. The beast is stealing their energy via the ritual in order to reproduce.*From what the manager says as he preaches, the PCs can glean two important bits of information. First, when the ritual is complete, the spawn will scurry off in search of their own bodies of water to inhabit and their own groups of people to drain of their energy. Second, the only way to prevent this is to touch the object to the creature before the corruption, using its holy power to destroy the evil beast.*The creature has many tentacles with which it attacks the PCs, and the enthralled fight with crazed fervor. If the PCs force the object into contact with the creature, it dissolves away and the people are released.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) betrayal, deadline, investigative, isolated area, monster, religion, tactical planning, villain*Mistaken Jealousy==Notches*Two long-dead sisters, once famous socialites, roam the streets as spirits. They love to party so much that they periodically bet each other over who can score the most one-night stands. They possess two women, usually sisters or close friends, and tally how many lovers each can bed within a week. The socialites only possess their victims after dark; during the day, the victims have no knowledge of how they spent the previous night.*Usually, the sisters play their game for a week, determine the winner, and go into hibernation for a while. This time it's different. A demon that feeds on sexual energy discovers the sisters on their initial night of partying and follows one of them to her conquest. He drinks the energy and kills the conquest after the sister leaves. The demon plans to follow one of them each night and, after the partying week is over, kill their victims as well.*Depending on how your players react to such things, you can have one of the sisters possess a female PC, or the female lover of a PC, the night before the adventure starts. The police visit the PC in the morning. She was seen with someone at a club the night before and that person has turned up dead. Of course, the possessed has no recollection of the evening's events, except that she met a sister or friend for dinner. Evidence places the possessed at the murder scene, where it appears that she had sex with the victim before the latter's death. You can up the ante by making the victim someone that the presumed killer normally isn't attracted to. If the victim is unrelated to the PCs, she may come to them for help.*The following night, the victim's sister or friend is the one responsible for killing someone while the original presumed killer resumes her conquest spree and takes someone else to bed; fortunately, the partner lives this time. The PCs must find a way to exorcise the possessing sisters and deal with the demon.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) betrayal, city, deadline, innocent, investigative, madness, mature themes, relationship hook, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, spirit, villain==The Little Camera That Could*An instant or digital camera found in a pawnshop seems  to capture sins in its pictures. The PCs may discover the camera, an enemy might place it in their midst to sow dissension, or an acquaintance might come to own the camera. One of the PCs should get their picture taken and find that a sin or character flaw is revealed. The camera is haunted by a vengeful spirit, damned by its sins and envious of the bonds of the living. It seeks to stir up negative emotions and fracture relationships. It whispers in people's minds to compel them to see the worst in each photo.*The first few pictures reveal small sins-funny and almost innocent. Each new picture of a person reveals something darker and more disturbing. The spirit in the camera uses a mix of lies and truth in the pictures, showing people with old or false lovers, making the pictures reveal hidden and unpleasant truths, or portraying believable but fabricated situations.*This works well for a personal horror game. The crux is the careful manipulation of the pictures so that each one digs at something hidden and effectively puts strain on a relationship. After each round of pictures, there should be in-character discussion and reaction. One good way to represent the pictures is to hand a player a list and have them choose a sin from it, then let them describe the picture and how it shows the sin. Take players aside and use a mix of mechanics and roleplaying to depict what evils the spirit in the camera is whispering. You might also take a few pictures of the players with a digital camera beforehand, storing them up to show at appropriate times.*If the camera takes a picture of its reflection, then the spirit controlling it is seen. If a person takes a picture of any holy text, the camera reveals a spell to destroy it. This requires an incantation and the person shedding blood as they confess every sin of theirs that the camera revealed. Destroying the camera prevents its further evil, but the damage it has already done must be healed with time and candid conversation.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Romance, Sci-fi, Supernatural*Tags: (JA) bearers, investigative, magic, mature themes, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, spirit==Normal St.*Jealous of the normalcy of the average person's life, a  werewolf has tried desperately to integrate into society-and has always failed. More than a little insane, he decides on a new tactic: make everyone else's lives as abnormal as his, so that he becomes the normal one. He picks an aggressively normal suburban street in an aggressively normal community, selects a house, and bites a member of that family in order to turn her into a werewolf. Then he watches, savoring her slide into the abnormal, and then repeats the process. Unless stopped, he will transform everyone on the street.*The PCs become involved through a resident who has observed numerous odd changes among her neighbors. Staking the place out one night, using her house as a home base, the PCs see shadowy forms prowling in the bushes. They disappear too quickly to follow, but leave tracks like upright wolves. Further examination reveals similar tracks around several specific houses (the houses where the sire has already struck).*Visiting those houses during the day turns up nothing odd-except in one case. In the others, the whole family seems normal; in this house, they all seem afraid of the little brother. He's the only one who has been turned so far. Spying on him, the PCs catch him leaving the house at night in wolf form, and returning with an older, much larger werewolf. If left alone, the boy turns the rest of his family that night.*While casing the street, the PCs are confronted by the police, who were alerted by another neighbor about suspicious behavior on the street. Fearful, the werewolf sire attacks the police while they're interrogating the PCs, and they must protect the cops-who have no idea what they're really facing.*The longer the PCs wait to deal with the sire, the more allies it will have in their final confrontation, as it turns family after family into werewolves. If the PCs seem uncertain what to do, have the sire pick the house they are staking out to turn next, and go after their friend.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) combat-heavy, deadline, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, monster, villain==Coloring Outside the Lines*A friend or contact of the PCs asks for their help in  determining what is causing an ongoing series of accidents at a small factory. The factory is a start-up venture, and the business is popular in the local community; the owner, a single dad, is equally well-liked. A committed father, he recently lost his wife and has retreated into his work. When the PCs meet him for the first time, his young daughter is on the floor nearby, coloring.*The daughter is behind the accidents, though inadvertently: She had latent psychic powers before her mother's tragic death, and the loss has awakened her abilities before she's old enough to deal with them. She has no control over the manifestation of her powers, and they flare up when she gets angry. The trick to this plot is to make the daughter part of the background early on, and give her only passing attention as the story develops-if you give her too much attention, the PCs will focus on her too early.*Interviewing workers who have been hurt in the factory reveals a pattern: All of the accidents simply came out of the blue. Automatic safeties didn't engage, machines didn't shut off when powered down, bolts sheared without any stress being applied to them, etc. There's a very faint aura of the supernatural around the factory, but the strongest energy is caused by a generalized malaise regarding the wife's death-she was close to all of the workers. This is a good time for the PCs to talk with the little girl. Hunched over her coloring book, she tells them about missing her mom and complains that her dad has spent too much time working since her mother's death.*An accident occurs while the PCs are in the factory, wounding one worker and putting others in danger; the PCs must intervene to make sure no one is killed or seriously injured. After this, the workers collectively refuse to continue working; this makes his daughter elated. The father is able to coax them back to work with a rousing speech, after which his daughter looks crushed.*Homing in on the daughter, the PCs notice that some pages of her coloring book are neat and tidy, while others are ripped, marred by bolder strokes, or feature coloring outside the lines. The dates on these pages correspond to the accidents. The climax occurs when the daughter's powers suddenly surge out of control, threatening the lives of everyone in the factory, including the PCs.*Can the PCs talk her down and save her and the workers? And if so, what will they do to keep her from causing any more accidents?*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) innocent, investigative, magic, social*Erroneous Judgment==The Sanctity of One's Own Home*The PCs are contacted by the priest of a local church who wants a nearby drug house shut down. The police won't act without proof, which the priest wants the PCs to acquire. The house is a front for vampires, who keep up its reputation to conceal their feeding. The vampires go to extreme measures to hide their presence, using gang shootings and drugs to cover up every aspect of their activities.*Garnering information about the vampires can be accomplished in multiple ways. Reports show a much higher than average number of missing persons cases in the area, but the police seem to be deaf to the pleas of the community. People will talk about witnessing strange events at the house, leading the PCs to suspect that it's more than just a drug house. Depending on the setting of your game, the PCs may or may not discern the true nature of the house at this time. One thing the PCs learn is that they'll have to make a trip inside for proof. This means they need to acquire the password, which is known by anyone who frequents the house or is in the vampires' employ.*Inside the house, the PCs find a great deal of evidence, but will be kept out of the basement and one wing of the house. The guards can be convinced to let the PCs in through bribes or coercion. A fight will also get them past the door, whether they win or lose.*The vampires have noticed the PCs' efforts and decide to let them in, hoping to destroy them. The vampires want keep the odds in their favor and try to split the party. In order to preserve their secret, they avoid fighting if possible, preferring a surprise kill. Failing that, however, they use any means available to kill the PCs. If the PCs escape, the vampires will chase them, employing a multitude of tactics to keep their identities hidden. If the PCs have no knowledge of the vampires, they should remain as the mysterious masterminds until the end.*The PCs may come back after their initial encounter, ready to fight and eliminate the neighborhood menace.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) city, combat-heavy, investigative, mature themes, monster, relationship hook, religion, siege, stealth, tactical planning==Nine-Tenths of the Law*A famed spiritualist is in town, and he has announced that  he's going to contact the spirit of one of the greatest killers who ever lived and force the spirit to answer for his crimes - live on stage at a major venue. The city is abuzz, and the PCs are invited to attend; a famous rival spiritualist claims that the act cannot be performed. The sance is quite a spectacle: Assisted by several other mediums, the spiritualist successfully calls up the killer's spirit and engages it in a battle of wills.*Then the spirit breaks loose of the spiritualist's control, and in one motion it reaches a ghostly arm into his chest and tears out his still-beating heart. As the crowd panics, the spirit mentally dominates the other mediums. They attack the audience, use the footlights to ignite the curtains, and generally wreak havoc. The PCs observe the killer's spirit merging with the body of the city's mayor-and it sees that they noticed the possession. While the PCs are helping people get out safely, the spirit/mayor escapes in the confusion.*The news the next day blames one of the mediums for the spiritualist's murder and the ensuing fire; no one will believe the PCs if they approach the authorities about the possessed mayor. The mayor will take action against the PCs, who are the only people in the city who know his new identity. One PC's apartment is raided and tossed by the police; another will be sacked from her job; a third will be beaten up by off-duty cops.*Their best ally is the rival spiritualist, who knows a ritual that can divest the spirit from the mayor's body and banish it back to the underworld. The ritual requires the mayor, as well as a personal object belonging to him, and it must be performed at a sacred site outside the city.*To obtain the personal object, the PCs can show up at the mayor's next engagement and steal something from him then, break into his mansion, or use another method. The most likely approach to get him to the ritual site is simply to kidnap him, which will involve getting past his guards and stealing him away undetected. During the ritual, the spirit will break free of the spiritualist's control and attack the PCs; they must try to complete the ritual before it can escape.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) alliance, innocent, madness, magic, politics, shady, spirit, stealth, villain==Ebony Sphere*While reading in his study, a well-known antique collector was killed by a hail of machine gun fire. The prize of his collection, an ebony sphere unearthed from an ancient king's tomb, rests undisturbed on a pedestal in his trophy room. The sphere is intelligent, and it communicates through dreams. It wishes to remain in the possession of the collector's niece (or, if you prefer, one of the PCs).*Exploring the grounds uncovers the bodies of the murderers. Two broad-shouldered men in expensive suits lie drowned in a pond, their hands clutching each other's throats. Their machine guns, recently fired, sit forgotten on the bank of the pond.*The collector's niece is staying at the mansion while she itemizes the collection for auction. She asks the PCs to stay at the house with her for security. A distinguished-looking, well-dressed crime boss visited her three times before her uncle's death. Each time, he made a private offer to purchase the ebony sphere with the implied threat that refusal would bring about violence. After the PCs discover the bodies of the murderers, she becomes certain the crime boss was involved.*Over the next several nights, the entire house experiences bizarre dreams. The dreams express the sphere's desire for the niece (or chosen PC) to pick it up, but the sphere cannot prevent its communication from reaching everyone nearby. If someone other than the niece touches the sphere, that person falls into a babbling stupor of insanity and remains incapacitated until the niece picks up the sphere.*A mysterious crone arrives on the scene. She understands the nature of the sphere, as she worships the gods of the long-dead king. Present the crone as mildly dangerous but ultimately non-threatening. At the first opportunity, she conducts a sance with the PCs. The sance ends abruptly when the sphere's ghostly protectors manifest and attack.*In the adventure's climax, the crime boss makes one final attempt to take the sphere from the house. A battle begins between the criminals and the PCs, but is interrupted when the crime boss takes the old crone hostage. The niece picks up the sphere and walks towards the crime boss. As she reaches the center-point of the study, she stops. She looks up at the crime boss and says, "It is mine." Her eyes turn inky black and a crackle of lightning shoots from the sphere to strike the crime boss.*He staggers back as the niece collapses to the ground. The sphere rolls away as the action begins again. The crime boss and his lackeys go for the sphere and the crone attends to the crumpled niece. It's up to the PCs to subdue the mobsters.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural*Tags: (TT) alliance, city, escort mission, innocent, intrigue, investigative, madness, magic, siege, spirit, tactical planning, twist, villain==The Apprentice's Promotion*The PCs return to their home or sanctuary to find that it has been broken into, and that among the missing items is one of importance to the party. During the investigation, clues are found that link the break-in to a supernatural being that the PCs have encountered with before, ideally a neutral entity or a lesser villain.*Having run into this being at specific locations before, they head to the most likely spot. Instead of the being, however, they find its apprentice, who is doing work on his master's behalf. He isn't hostile, but must be convinced to share what he knows-namely that his master returned with the object in question, which is now in their lair. Under duress, he'll reveal the location of the lair.*The PCs travel to the lair and encounter a number of magical defenses, which they must overcome before they can confront the master. The master, who doesn't look kindly on intruders, is hostile. He denies any accusations the PCs make, and a fight ensues. The apprentice appears and lurks in the background, doing nothing to help the master or hinder the PCs, instead only watching intently.*If the PCs deduce that it was actually the apprentice who broke into their sanctuary and try to stop the fight, the apprentice attacks, hoping to keep the battle between the master and the PCs raging. His motives should be clear to the PCs: He wants to usurp his master's place, and orchestrated the entire affair in order to get them to kill his master. Can the PCs convince the master of the truth, and if they do, will they join forces with him against the apprentice?*Should the PCs kill the master, his apprentice will make peace with the PCs; in later adventures, he'll return with considerably more power, having claimed the strength and knowledge of his former master.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) betrayal, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, rivalry, villain*Remorse==Visions of a Monster*One of the PCs begins to have strange and very vivid dreams about committing crimes. These dreams feel entirely real, and carry with them all of the guilt, shame, and other negative emotions associated with the acts the PC commits. At first, the dreams are about minor crimes, stealing money from a cash register and filching someone's vintage jacket. For the next few nights, the PC dreams that she is having an affair (whether or not she is actually married); that affair goes from erotic and thrilling to violent, ending with the PC waking up filled with grief and anxiety after killing her lover. When that murder appears on the news that morning, the PCs knows that her dreams are more than just dreams.*Over the next few nights, the PC will have a new dream about committing murder each night, and every morning the events in her dreams will appear on the news. During this time, the PCs will be investigating the murders, and at some point they will arouse suspicion about their activities, leading the police to question the PC who has been having the dreams. They quickly clear her of the actual crimes, but the very real grief and guilt, as well as her lack of sleep, are starting to take their toll.*Clues from the PC's visions lead the group to a local store frequented by the PCs. Looking around, they spot the store manager wearing the vintage jacket from one of the PC's first dreams. He shows no remorse when confronted, and instead escalates straight to violence: He kills bystanders in his attempt to get away from the PCs. During the fight, the PC who has been having the dreams is overwhelmed with grief, which is being projected by the villain.*A chase ensues, and when he becomes desperate the man takes his own life. This creates a psychic feedback loop that compels the PC to try to commit suicide, and this loop must be overcome with the help of the other PCs. When they check out the man's body, the PCs find that his antique glasses-which should have been smashed-are intact and untouched. The glasses radiate intense emotion, which is obvious to anyone who touches them.*Post-adventure research will reveal that the glasses allow the wearer to transfer all their guilt for their actions to someone else, creating a villain who has no remorse for even the most heinous crimes-the ultimate monster.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) innocent, investigative, madness, race, villain==Strangers in the Night*Strange and horrible dreams are plaguing one or more of the PCs. When they wake from the dreams, they hear whistling coming from the street and see an old man walking by. The dreams seem familiar-a mix of their own fears and a story being told by the old man.*The walking man is a spirit, an ankou, tasked with collecting the dead who won't go quietly. A recent event has released many souls who haven't gone to their proper resting places. The ankou is stirring them up with his whistling. Once the PCs have seen the ankou, they wake every time he whistles, and they can see the spirits he is chasing. The ankou approaches the PCs and informs them of the situation, not asking for help but stating that he won't stop until all souls are rounded up.*The spirits are numerous and appear to be being pulled in one direction. The attracting force is limbo, and each soul consumed makes the entrance to limbo larger.*The PCs are faced with a moral dilemma. They can decide to    help the ankou, trusting judgment of the one who would send the souls to hell, or hinder the ankou and allow the souls to be pulled into limbo. Spirits will approach the PCs and beg to be allowed into limbo.*If the PCs help the ankou he will ask them to drip blood on four stones that have caused the limbo opening. This will close the gate. If the PCs try to impede the task of the ankou, the climax will involve the PCs running for their lives as the gate moves from the realm of the spiritual into the realm of the physical. Either way, the ankou is calm and collected. Even if he fails, he can leave and pursue other souls. The limbo gate will eventually close.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) alliance, deadline, difficult choice, magic, religion, social, spirit==Fatal Footsteps*A vampire hunter has been hunting vampires for quite  some time and has been an ally of the PCs in the past. This hunter has also been regularly injecting himself with vampire blood in order to become a dhampyr, or half-vampire, gaining the strength to fight vampires and resistance to their charms and commands. The hunter can still walk in the daylight.*Recently, the vampire hunter got in a bit of trouble while fighting a vampire, and his girlfriend decided to inject herself in order to help him. Unfortunately, she took too much and became a full vampire. Realizing this the first time she tried to walk in the sun, the she fled in shame.*Currently, the hunter is pursuing the vampire girlfriend. He can't bring himself to kill her, nor will he allow anyone else to harm her. Unfortunately, she has become extremely dangerous and has no compunctions about killing to survive.*The vampire girlfriend has come to the PCs' attention. She moved into an apartment complex and used her powers to ingratiate herself with the other tenants. The newly minted vampire satiated herself with the occasional sip, but when one victim woke up she killed him and his new wife. She then moved to a different part of the city, but she still goes back to the apartment complex to snack.*The PCs get on the case, but they have a problem: The hunter asks them to stay out of it. If the PCs comply, then the hunter becomes his quarry's next victim. If they don't, then the hunter becomes an adversary as they try to stop the vampire girlfriend from killing again.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) betrayal, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, villain==A Killer's Ghost*A ghost manifests in front the PCs, looks directly at them,  and then points at a nearby building before fading away. If they check out the building's history, they find nothing unusual. This event is repeated another time or two until the PCs physically investigate one of the sites the ghost points to. When they do, they find a hidden body-clearly a murder victim. Investigating the other sites reveals a corpse at each of them.*Once they figure out how to report the murders to the police without being blamed for them, the ghost knows that they're responding to his actions. In life, he was a serial killer who died of natural causes, leaving all of the murders linked to him unsolved. Wracked by guilt, he's trying to make amends by revealing his crimes in death.*After the PCs have uncovered several bodies, the ghost starts pointing them towards sites with no bodies at all. Because he can eavesdrop invisibly, he has discovered three other serial killers in the city, and wants to see them brought to justice. After the PCs figure out what the ghost is doing and start to close in on the killers, the killers begin targeting them.*The killers have no special powers, but they're adept at committing crimes without getting caught, will do just about anything to avoid capture, and can come up with creative ways to torment the PCs. They'll try to frame the PCs for murders that they themselves committed, break into their apartments, and otherwise make their lives miserable-as well as try to kill them, should the opportunity present itself.*This is a fairly freeform adventure, and it can even be worked into the background of a completely different adventure. It can jump to the foreground when the killers begin targeting the PCs directly, forcing them to react or give up any hope of leading normal lives again.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) city, investigative, magic, sandbox, spirit, villain*Recovery of a Lost One==Cross-Country Killer*Before his execution date, an imprisoned serial killer who  was on the FBI's Most Wanted list executed a brilliant jailbreak. If the prospect of a killer on the loose who has a record of sexually assaulting his victims before disposing of them isn't frightening enough, the diary entries and notes he left behind indicate an obsession with exacting revenge on the witnesses, lawyers, and judges who were instrumental in his capture and prosecution years ago. The PCs are FBI agents, police, or otherwise deeply connected to law enforcement.*Following the clues in the diary, the PCs head to the prosecuting attorney's house. They find the attorney hog-tied and gagged, surrounded by clues that point to the killer fleeing before he could finish the job, perhaps frightened off by the approaching sirens.*In a meeting with the chief psychologist on the case, she expresses another viewpoint. She says revenge has never been the killer's motive. This is a feint in some larger plan. Before the discussion continues, however, a radio call about the killer comes in, leading to a high-speed chase. The PCs capture the vehicle only to find that the driver isn't the escaped killer. He's a dupe hired by the killer to distract law enforcement. While they followed the bait, the killer abducted the chief psychologist.*The final confrontation takes place in an abandoned two-story school in the serial killer's hometown. He has been planning the culmination of his twisted fantasy for a long time. The object of his desire is at his mercy, bound in one of the classrooms. She's the "teacher" and he's the "unruly student," but this time he has the power and he intends to take out all of his childhood frustrations on her. Well in advance, the serial killer littered the school with traps (explosives, blinding sprays of acid, tripwire-triggered shotguns, etc.) and planned his escape route across the rooftop and down the fire escape stairs.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (TT) deadline, madness, mature themes, innocent, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox==The Party*A friend of the PCs asks for their help in locating his  teenage son, who went missing several days ago. Two of the boy's friends are also missing, and the police have no leads-it's as if the teens simply vanished.*Whether uncovering new leads or retracing the steps of the police, who are less attuned to the occult, the PCs discover a sort of clubhouse (little more than an abandoned shack) in the woods where the teenagers hung out. Inside the shack they find a ritual circle, implements, and a number of amateurish books on magic. Among the books is a small, much older volume that details a ritual to summon "the Party," a supernatural celebration to end all parties.*The Party is in actuality a vampiric entity that survives by trapping people in a shared psychic experience-the ultimate party-and draining their life force. In the past it has been a 19th century French masquerade ball, a 1950s sock-hop, a 90s rave, a sweet sixteen party, Mardi Gras, a senior prom, a cotillion, and dozens of other events. While the people trapped inside it have the time of their lives, the Party slowly drains away their life force until they expire.*To rescue the teens, the PCs will need to summon the     Party and enter its psychic realm. Once inside, the PCs find themselves at an amazing, period-specific party. In order to proceed, they must first resist the effects of the Party, so as not to get lost in a reverie from which they cannot return. Use whatever mechanic is most appropriate for this, and give the PCs ample opportunities to resist. The entire time that the PCs are inside the Party, it will slowly drain their life force; this effect cannot be prevented. The PCs must find the three teens, convince them that they're in danger, and leave the Party.*The Party will fight back in the form of several supernaturally enhanced bouncers, as well as angry patrons who don't want their party interrupted. Once they fight their way out of the Party, the PCs find a special exit that leads them back to their world. It's up to you whether or not there are others trapped in the Party; if there are, this adventure can be used to introduce a new PC or NPC to the game.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) deadline, innocent, investigative, isolated area, magic, social, spirit, villain==Haunted Oil Rig*A week ago, an oil company evacuated one of their offshore  oil rigs due to "systemic structural problems," but in actuality they abandoned it because it had become haunted, and five workers had died on the rig in the previous weeks. Three workers were believed to have left the rig before the evacuation, including a friend or relative of one of the PCs. Friends or family send word of his disappearance and of the last place he was seen: on the rig.*In fact, all three workers are still aboard. Two are members of a sinister cult, and caused the haunting as part of their cult's broader agenda. They used an ancient artifact to open a doorway to the spirit world aboard the rig, but something went wrong, and a much larger portal was created. The third worker, the PCs' friend, stumbled across the other two mid-ritual, and they tied him up and stashed him in a utility room; for now, he's still alive.*Seeing that it has gone dangerously wrong, the cultists are trying to undo their own ritual-but they've already informed the cult leader of their success, and she's en route to the rig. The haunting itself is also quite dangerous, with ghosts and other malevolent entities stalking the oil rig, and although the cultists are protected, the friend is not: He has been possessed by a dozen different spirits, each warring for sole control.*When the PCs arrive, they can tell that something isn't right: Droplets of water "run" vertically up walls, ghostly faces are glimpsed in reflective surfaces, and the entire rig smells like burning plastic. As they search the rig, ghosts will first try to drive them away indirectly by causing accidents, shattering light fixtures, etc., and then begin attacking them directly. When they find the friend, they'll have to contend with the entities possessing him and deal with the two cultists.*The cultists' artifact can be used to end the possession, and even to stop the haunting altogether-if the PCs can get the cultists to tell them how to use it. The leader of the cult will also arrive with her entourage before the PCs can leave the rig, and whether they choose to fight her, sneak away without stopping the haunting, or focus on ending their friend's possession, she will do her best to stop them.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Pulp, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, exploration, innocent, isolated area, madness, magic, relationship hook, spirit, stealth, villain==House for Sale, Some Work Needed*A large house is scheduled to be demolished, but neighbors  begin to display strange behavior and the demolition company encounters several legal hurdles that prevent them from proceeding with the job. When one of the neighbors hears her brother chanting down in the basement of their house, she contacts the PCs for help.*Inside the house is an ancient evil, locked away in the foundations. Destroying the house will destroy the being, thus it has awoken and called to one of its servitors. Its servitor has put the legal blocks into place, trying to keep the house safe. He has also been sacrificing homeless people to the thing in the house, increasing its power and allowing it to influence people in the neighborhood. Many are now in its thrall, performing its bidding and working to protect it.*While looking into the matter, the PCs notice the odd behavior of the thralls. They'll also notice strange additions to many houses: Symbols are cut into fences, dark stains are found in odd places, and scribbled dates, times, and cryptic markings appear throughout the neighborhood.*The thralls begin to sacrifice the remaining non-thralls in the area, some of whom the PCs have met. If too much time elapses, the PCs notice more and more people disappearing. All signs suggest that some catastrophic event will happen at the house at a certain date and time in the very near future. The final sacrifice needs to be massive, and all remaining non-thralls are being rounded up. Any kind of occult research will show that something ancient and powerful will soon emerge into the world.*The PCs can pretend to be thralls to gain access to the ritual, or they may infiltrate the basement beforehand, likely having to sneak or fight their way in. If the PCs are detected, the thralls will attempt to kill or capture them to make them part of the next sacrifice.*In the basement, cracks in the concrete have formed sigils. If the ritual is allowed to succeed and the PCs are forced to fight the being, all is lost-they can't take it in a fight. They must defeat it before the fight begins by destroying the symbols in the floor and breaking a piece of ancient stone that is built into the foundation. To do this, they will have to deal with the thralls. This may mean making the choice between killing innocents and saving the world.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, investigative, madness, magic, spirit*Loss of Loved Ones==A Cold, Wet Hand*In a city crisscrossed with irrigation canals, pets in the PCs'  neighborhood begin to disappear at night. Sometimes a print or two is found at the scene, always from a worn-out child's shoe. There's no obvious pattern to the disappearances. Then a child goes missing, followed by another, and the authorities begin to investigate in earnest. The PCs become involved in the investigation.*The source of the problem is an undead child. The boy drowned in one of the city's cool, deep canals, and his father-grief-stricken, angry, and bitter-prayed for him to be returned to life. A dark power granted his wish, but in a twisted way, and now the undead boy roams the city, never straying far from the canals that sustain him. His lungs are permanently filled with the water that drowned him, and his clammy touch causes his victims' lungs to fill with water as well, asphyxiating them.*Clues at the scene of one of the first disappearances suggest that the abductor used the canals, and the trail leads back to the missing child's body-dead by drowning, despite being on dry land when found. A second body is found under the same circumstances, but this time a locket has been dropped at the scene; the locket belongs to the undead boy. When the PCs visit the boy's father, he seems cooperative, but in fact he will oppose them at every turn from then on; he prefers his son's twisted un-life to having no son at all. You can use him as a foil throughout the rest of the adventure.*Once they know the nature of the killer, the PCs must stop the boy before he claims another victim. The canal network is vast, but he haunts the same places from time to time. His touch is utterly deadly, making him a dangerous foe. When the PCs confront the boy at last, he is about to kill another child. They must rescue the already-drowning child while figuring out how to stop the boy. He isn't evil, strictly speaking, and during the fight his dead eyes and mute, bloated smile will plead silently for the PCs to spare him.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (SM) city, deadline, exploration, innocent, monster, race, sandbox==Deadly Salvage*A deep-sea salvage ship dredged up several strange eggs on  a recent operation, and has since turned them over to a local university for study. The eggs belong to a previously undiscovered species of underwater creature, only a handful of which exist in the world-and the mother who hatched the eggs wants them back. The salvage vessel disappears on its next voyage, and the PCs become involved by way of a connection to the scientific community or through the salvage company. The Coast Guard has found no sign of the ship.*Aboard a chartered sonar vessel, the PCs return to the salvage ship's last known location. Their sonar picks up something large beneath them, moving fast and approaching the surface. Whether they stick around or flee, the sea monster tries to eat their ship. They barely catch a glimpse of something slick, gray, fast-moving, massive, and many-tentacled as it destroys part of their ship and slips back beneath the waves.*Investigating the salvage company, they find out about the eggs. When they visit the university, they discover that the scientists have dissected one of them and put the others in an incubator. The dissected egg appears to be filled with some sort of gray jelly, but no embryo. While they're there, the jelly leaps out of the egg and attacks a researcher, flowing into his     mouth and smothering him. It then escapes down a drain.*The PCs must return the eggs to the seabed where they were found, or the mother will sink more ships and eventually come up on land in search of them. The eggs will also hatch within a day or two, releasing more deadly slime creatures. The only way to safely return the eggs is in a submersible, which the university's oceanic laboratory can provide if suitably convinced. As they try to replace the eggs, the mother creature will probe their submarine; unless they can convince her that they're helping her, not hurting the eggs, she'll attack-and once she sees that one egg is missing, they'd better leave with all haste.*What will the PCs do about the monster? Will they let it be, or try to exterminate it? For a follow-up adventure, what if someone else decides to go after it, like a government agency looking for a perfect biological weapon?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Sci-fi, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MR) bearers, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, isolated area, monster, stealth, travel==My Better Half*After a wealthy couple is killed in their own home-* savagely torn apart by something with large claws and a vicious bite-the PCs are called in to investigate. A trail leads from the house out into the woods, but it ends abruptly. The man received more of the killer's attention than the woman. He was a partner at a powerful local law firm, giving the PCs their first clue.*The next night, a nearly identical murder takes place; the victim is a partner at the same law firm, and again there are no other leads. The night after that, the Assistant District Attorney is torn apart; the next night, it's a patrolman with the local police department. Each night, the attacks are more savage than the night before.*The PCs discover a connection between all of the victims. The first lawyer was charged after causing a fatal car accident while drunk, and was defended by the other partner. The patrol officer covered up the fact that the lawyer was drunk due to a personal friendship and the Assistant D.A. cut a deal so that the lawyer served no jail time.*Looking into the car crash, the PCs learn that the victim was a married man. When they visit his widow's house, they find it abandoned. The furniture, walls, and floors are covered in huge scratches that match those found at the crime scenes. Gouged into the living room floor is a diagram showing the relationship between the murder victims; the only name not scratched out is that of the owner of a local bar-where the lawyer was drinking the night of the crash.*When the PCs arrive at the bar, they find the widow already there, trying to seduce the bar owner and lead him away so that she can kill him somewhere more private. If confronted, she'll go into a frenzy, transform into a wolf, and try to kill as many people as possible-unless the PCs can stop her.*If the PCs don't kill the widow, she'll confess that she has been a werewolf for many years-long before the crash-but after falling in love with her husband, she learned to control her rage and stop taking innocent lives. Now that he's gone, she has become a monster once more. Can the PCs save her, or should they simply end her misery?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*tags: (PV) city, difficult choice, investigative, monster, social, spirit==Private Family Business*In a secluded backwoods town, people are disappearing and  the townsfolk are keeping it under wraps. The PCs are introduced to the story when someone famous goes missing or when a local breaks the silence and comes to them for help.*Various locals will comment on the disappearances, but few reveal any relevant information. The sheriff scoffs at outside help, saying that it's a town problem. A retired nurse remarks that one of the PCs looks like a family member of an old hunter who comes into town every few months. The hunter is currently in town, and it's evident that everyone gives him a wide berth. He glares evilly at the retired nurse if they're encountered together.*The PCs discover that the hunter's family was sick many years ago during a heavy snowstorm, and that the town doctor refused to make a house call to treat them. The hunter came to town and bought some medicine, but the sheriff closed the roads. He walked back through the woods, but fainted in the snow. He was found and tended to by the nurse, who wouldn't let him leave. His family died alone. This information might come from more talkative locals after another disappearance has occurred, from hospital or sheriff's records, or from the retired nurse.*The PCs need to check out the hunter's cabin, far outside of town. While driving, their car breaks down and shows signs of sabotage. They must walk the rest of the way, but find themselves attacked by a pack of wolves that are oddly hungry for human blood. If the PCs don't defeat the wolves, the sound of a shot from somewhere nearby scares the pack away; the shot was fired by the hunter, who is on his way to the cabin.*The hunter has been killing the families of people who contributed to his family's deaths. He feeds their bodies to wild animals, which acquire a taste for human blood. Evidence can be found all around his cabin, where even the bones of his family remain. The hunter returns after the PCs have had a chance to search the place. He leads the PCs on a wild chase, firing at them to fend them off. The PCs might apprehend him, or he might be heard screaming as he's eaten by one of the area's bloodthirsty animals.*This scenario can become supernatural by having the hunter's ghost committing the murders, in which case burying the bodies of the hunter and his family will send him to his eternal rest.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) combat-heavy, innocent, isolated area, madness, monster, race, spirit, villain