Smart Tots*Concerned family members have spurred an undercover  investigation into a private academy for gifted students. Texts and video conference calls are becoming strange, or have simply ceased altogether. Nothing seems amiss when the parents visit, though student contact is limited and tours are tightly controlled, but the strange communications persist.*A tech company operates the school and uses the students as test subjects in experiments involving intelligence-enhancing nanites. The benefit to the company is twofold: The students perform slave labor and work on illegal projects like nanite production, and their memories and dreams provide ripe material to harvest for hyper-reality experiences, which the company can then sell. The nanites also function as an electronic "collar," prohibiting the students from leaving the school.*The enterprise is so fruitful the company intends to detain the students at the end of the term. It also employs a private security firm to secure the school grounds and numerous medical experts to isolate the children from outside healthcare-even in emergencies. The students' strange communications are actually coded messages for help, but the nanites have boosted the children's intelligence so greatly that only a supercomputer could decode their S.O.S. calls.*This is a sandbox adventure in which the PCs are faced with an open-ended problem, and must come up with their own solution. If you'd like to throw in a twist, the students can help by infecting their captors with nanites of their own creation that reduce intelligence, or by joining forces with the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) innocent, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, siege, social, stealth, tactical planning, twist, villain==Non-Addictive, Helps-You-Sleep Circuitry*A company is testing a new mood-stabilizing chip that's  supposedly stronger and offers finer control than most mood drugs. Initial tests show side effects in some people but, due to pressure from shareholders, the CEO releases it early. Out in the wild, many more people are affected than were predicted by the tests. Users become angry and depressed.*A scientist, recently fired from the company, makes a public broadcast claiming that the company has a fix but won't release it. To do so would require them to admit they erred in releasing the chip too early. The CEO contacts the PCs and offers his side of the story, saying the fired scientist modified the chips and is holding the solution for ransom. Because the scientist now works for a rival company, he suspects that the glitch in the chip was an act of sabotage. The company needs the fix and sends the PCs after the scientist.*The fired scientist is in one of the test towns, surrounded by people suffering the drug's side effects-and an army of personal guards. The scientist isn't hard to find, but he is hard to reach. He plays at easing the pain of those affected with the backing of his new company. In the eyes of the public, he's a godsend and the new company is benevolent and generous. His lab is in a building owned by the new company and is heavily guarded, but the PCs might be able to fight or sneak their way in. The lab contains materials and part of the code that can used to create the fix.*The scientist keeps the missing part of the code at his expensive new home, in both paper form and in a highly secure terminal. The new company also has a copy at one of their satellite labs. Through the use of news reports, public accolades, or other means, the PCs should be made aware that the scientist is revered by the townsfolk, and that attacking him openly might cause problems.*The PCs might find a way to blackmail the scientist, revealing that he currently has the fix, or they might be able to sneak into the scientist's house or the corporate lab and get a copy of it. Much of this adventure falls into a moral gray area, with ample room for the PCs' choices to affect the outcome.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (JA) city, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, planet-based, politics, race, sandbox, shady, stealth, tactical planning, trade==They Come for the Fallen*An alien delegation approaches the governors of the planet  where the PCs currently reside, seeking to uncover the place where a prince of their people died 6,000 years ago. The party can be brought into this in several ways: PCs with archeological expertise may be hired by the aliens to help find the prince's burial place, the planetary government may hire the PCs to escort the delegation and run interference to keep the aliens out of trouble, or, if the PCs are famous, the aliens and the government may decide together to select the PCs to act as their guards.*The PCs' first task is to identify the resting place of the long-dead prince. The aliens have poetry and mythology describing the resting place, but it dates back several millennia. Research eventually identifies the site as a rift valley on a smaller continent. The valley is 50 miles long and two miles wide on average, and is inhabited by insular, xenophobic ranchers. The PCs must convince the ranchers to allow the aliens access to their land to perform the subsurface scanning needed to find the prince's body. In this hostile social climate, dissent among the aliens also becomes clear: Some of them resent human assistance.*When the prince is located, the site is found beneath the land of one of the valley's most xenophobic residents. The PCs must bargain with him or remove him from the picture somehow in order to excavate the site. Once the prince's remains are uncovered, several of the aliens become incensed at human involvement and attack "the unclean"-everyone not of their race. The other aliens assist the PCs and the valley dwellers in subduing them.*With tensions running high, the aliens reveal that they wish to build a temple on the site, and that they mean to inhabit that temple once it's been built. They swore an oath on the dead prince's bones, and will not be deterred. By choosing to honor his burial site rather than return the prince's remains to their home world, the aliens would be cast out from their society. Neither government, human or alien, was aware of their plans, to say nothing of the xenophobic locals. Can the PCs resolve this dangerous situation?*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) betrayal, escort mission, exploration, innocent, planet-based, politics, religion, social, travel, twist==Light from the Heavens*The elders tell a tale that generations ago mighty heroes traveled to the Crater of Mists, where they fought the great spirits whose anger had caused fiery light to rain down from the sky. Those heroes, although they succeeded, never returned. Yesterday morning, for the first time in generations, the western fields were struck by a bolt of light that set them on fire. The elders of the village have gathered the strongest and smartest men and women of your generation, hoping to find some who are brave enough to venture into the crater and do battle with the spirits once more.*In the Crater of Mists is an ancient facility that once controlled an orbital microwave array used to transfer solar energy to the planet's surface. The automated facility has recently completed repairs and has resumed transferring energy. The AI controlling the station doesn't know that the microwave collectors on the surface are no longer present, or that a town exists there in their place. Further transfers will obliterate the town.*The PCs will face at least one challenge as they travel to the crater. Once they reach it, they'll have to contend with the crater's hostile flora and fauna as they make their way to its center. In the middle of the crater they will find the control station. The station's automatic defenses are still active, and they will try to prevent the PCs from gaining access.*Once inside the control center, the PCs will face another of the AI's defenses: cyborgs it created from the bodies of the heroes who ventured to the crater generations ago. Because the town's elders venerate these ancient heroes, the PCs will recognize them from their tales, which can make for a surprising and peculiar encounter. The PCs will then be confronted by the AI itself. They can fight the AI and destroy its command core, or they can try to explain to the AI that the microwave collectors are no longer present and that the energy transfers are harming the town.*The AI can be played a number of ways: as a crazed machine bent on taking over the crater (and beyond), as a dutiful caretaker trying to carry out its program parameters, or as an entity eager to learn about humanity. You can twist this plot by making the AI a pawn of a local warlord, who has tricked it into acting as a weapon so that he can take over the surrounding towns.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, dungeon crawl, exploration, isolated area, planet-based==It's Just Business*A trade war between two powerful corporations in a new  galactic sector has intensified. Blood has been spilled repeatedly on both sides, but the sector governor has done almost nothing to stop the war.*The party somehow comes across evidence that members of a one of the corporations are willing to betray their employer and testify to illegal undertakings in return for substantial benefits (wealth, positions of power, etc.). This could end the trade war in one fell swoop, bring peace and prosperity to the region, and make the PCs very wealthy.*Depending on how the party acquired the information, they may need to earn the betrayers' trust and convince the rival corporation to accept the deal. The real adventure begins once the sector governor is on board with the plan: He'll prosecute one corporation and award exclusive trade rights to the other. Up until now, both corporations held substantial influence over the sector governor, and they're privy to information about the governor that he wants kept under wraps.*The corporation about to be betrayed is the sole manufacturer of a drug to which the governor is addicted, and none of the betrayers knows how it's made. This is why he's been slow to respond to their trade war. The governor is willing to go forward with the plan, but only if the party can secure the formula for the drug.*The party must physically penetrate the corporate arcology, a fairly easy task if the betrayers assist them. Next, they have to gain access to the secured medical floors where the drug is produced (a much more difficult task), track down the formula either physically or electronically, steal whatever rare ingredients are necessary to make the drug, and get back out. The complication is that the drug is produced by an alien life form, similar to a large sea urchin, which lives in a glass case filled with ammonium hydroxide.*The security apparatus will respond aggressively if the party is detected, but won't endanger the aliens unless absolutely necessary. If their glass cases are broken, the alien creatures will die rapidly and the party will have to go back for more. For an optional moral quandary, have the drug instead be produced by the livers of genetically altered humans.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (KS) alliance, bearers, deadline, difficult choice, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, politics, shady, stealth==The Church of Nova*A distant system's primary star is going to go nova in the  extremely near future, and for decades this system has harbored a ragtag fleet of supplicants, scientists, and religious zealots, many of whom belong to the Church of Nova. The church is dedicated to the ultimate primal separation of soul and body: death by supernova. Not merely content to tool around the system waiting for their sublime destruction, however, two mid-level church leaders have taken matters into their own hands. With the aid of a few scientist converts, over the past year they have delivered several payloads to the sun that were intended to dramatically speed up the process.*One of the Church of Nova's acolytes caught wind of their activities, had second thoughts about his fate, and fled the system. Seeking out or running into the PCs, he asks them to help shake others out of their reverie and evacuate as many people from the church fleet as possible before the star goes nova-which could happen at literally any moment.*The Church of Nova's security forces won't take kindly to any attempts, overt or covert, to intervene in their business. The fleet's mixed population also presents a challenge for the party: Some people will be receptive to reason, while others are sincere in their desire to die for their faith. The biggest threat, of course, is the imminent nova event itself, which will be kicked off by the next payload the zealots deliver to their star. The PCs may hijack communication channels to speak directly to all of the ships in the fleet, or they might decide to identify the ships most likely to listen to reason and go ship-to-ship to convince people to flee the system. Direct conflict with the church is also a possibility, though this will get ugly quickly; the first half of this adventure is primarily social.*As the PCs begin to assess the situation and make plans, they learn from an informant that another payload is slated for delivery very shortly. The church's leader wouldn't approve of this tactic, nor of its past uses, if he learned of them, and might side with the PCs if they opt to try to stop the zealots through diplomacy. If they use force, the church as a whole will oppose them. If the payload is delivered, the star will go nova within minutes-barely enough time for the PCs and perhaps one or two other ships to reach minimum safe distance. Everyone else in the system will be annihilated.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (MR) deadline, interplanetary, religion, sandbox, social, travel==Deliverance Lifeboat*A mayday call relays the news that a rogue asteroid has  changed its orbit and is heading straight for an unsuspecting pastoral world. Expected casualties are 100%. The PCs are aboard one of the few ships in the area, and assistance has been requested for this emergency. The other ships providing aid will defer to their leadership.*While not large, the population is widely dispersed across this agricultural world. There are only one or two starfaring ships on the planet; the majority of their ships are just barges for ferrying food into orbit. The settlers don't trust centralized governments, and what little government there is has no evacuation plan. They recognize the need to evacuate, however, and will adopt the PCs' plans, whatever they might be.*The barges can be retrofitted to carry people, but only have enough life support for a small crew. Carbon scrubbers and climate control can be thrown together, but it will take some time, resources, and expertise. Artificial gravity can be induced by spinning the barges.*Small groups of pirates and smugglers also operate from this planet. Some will help, if they can be found and persuaded to do so. Others will try to take advantage of the desperate situation. Obviously, none of these groups trust anyone who can get them into trouble.*If a moral conundrum is desired, pockets of farmers will initially refuse to leave. Some of them are staying behind with their families, including young children. The children agree to be taken along but some of the parents refuse to leave-and some parents won't let their kids leave, no matter what.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (KS) alliance, deadline, planet-based, social==The Good Samaritan's Reward*A distant colony has gone silent, no longer  broadcasting communications of any kind. The organization that sponsored the colony can't afford to mount a full-scale rescue effort, so they enlist the PCs to find out what has happened to the colonists. The colony is far from settled space, and can only be reached by a lengthy journey. Unbeknownst to the PCs, the colony is the object of an intense rivalry between two groups, each striving to stake a claim to its bounty of a rare resource.*En route, the PCs' craft is attacked by mercenary ships hired by the rival colonizing organization. Since no one knew about the PCs' voyage, they should be concerned: This can't be a coincidence. This encounter is a pitched space battle, with the PCs' ship outnumbered by many smaller, weaker vessels.*Entering the colony system, the PCs' ship is bathed in radiation levels that are much higher than expected. Sensors suggest that the radiation comes from a nuclear explosion; their ship's shielding will hold for a week or so of exposure, but no longer-and leaving the ship will be dangerous.*A ship belonging to the rival colonists is in orbit around the planet, badly damaged. A massive nuclear blast crater, visible from orbit, marks the spot where the colony used to be. The colonists on the surface signal the PCs' ship and explain that there has been a terrible accident. In truth, they followed orders and detonated a nuclear device when it became clear that their rivals were going to claim the colony. The damaged ship also signals the PCs, explaining that they were the victims of an unprovoked attack by the colonists.*There isn't enough time for another ship to reach the colony, so the PCs must decide who to help and how to help them-*in approximately one week or less, before their shields fail and the radiation kills them all. Getting the colonists off-planet is the first step; repairing the rival colonists' ship and using it to get everyone from both factions out of the system is the second.*En route back to settled space, the PCs must contend with blowups among the rivals, failing systems aboard the crippled ship, and the revelation that the rivals also brought a small nuclear device-which at least one of them is crazy enough to use on the return trip.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) deadline, difficult choice, escort mission, interplanetary, isolated area, social, travel, twist==Return of the Captain*The PCs are docked at a space station after the completion of a recent mission. As they prepare to enjoy some downtime, they encounter a friend who is the captain of another ship. He confesses to the PCs that he has been stranded on the station for several days because his second-in-command double-crossed him and led a successful mutiny. After being restrained, he was ejected from the ship in a lifeboat, and was fortunate enough to get picked up by passing traders and dropped off at the station.*The captain is happy to see friendly faces, and asks for the PCs' help in regaining his ship. He knows where the mutineer is headed: a remote planet that's home to something of considerable value (natural resource, lost artifact, etc.). He knows this because, before the mutiny, he shared the ship's secret destination with his second-in-command. The mutineer used this knowledge to buy off the crew with promises of a larger share of the money earned from their find.*The captain knows an alternate route to the planet-one that's dangerous, but gives them a shot at reaching the destination before the mutineer can make off with the find. He offers to share the profits from the find with the PCs if they help him get his ship back.*The captain's route requires some skilled piloting, and will be a challenge for the PCs to traverse. When the PCs and the captain reach the planet, they'll find the captain's ship already there, and the mutineer won't be happy to see them. A skirmish between the two ships will begin in orbit and, when the tide turns against one ship or the other, continue on the planet's surface.*On the surface, the PCs must race the mutineer and his crew to the find. Can they stop him without further violence, or will they be forced to kill him to recover the find and reclaim the captain's ship?*If your campaign doesn't feature faster-than-light travel, then the mutineer simply doesn't know the planet's coordinates, and must search the captain's ship for them. This will create the delay needed for the PCs and the captain to arrive at the planet shortly after the mutineer.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) alliance, interplanetary, race, travel==Behind Enemy Lines*Communication with a spy who has been deep  undercover suddenly ceases. The PCs are hired to traverse enemy lines and report on his status or, if necessary, rescue him. He has been on a critical mission within a neutral but volatile country, working with dissidents within the government who are trying to overthrow it. The PCs can be introduced to this plot in many ways: They might already be connected to an espionage organization that would send them after the spy, they may be approached because of their past exploits, or they could be offered the job and a pardon for past crimes as payment.*Entering the country will pose a moderate challenge. The country isn't open to outsiders, but will allow people in on official business. The military can help the PCs with fake IDs, or they can try to sneak in on their own. Infiltrating the capitol city where the spy was last heard from should be the tougher challenge. Guards patrol streets and city walls, border checkpoints have sophisticated technology to detect fake ID chips, and skirmishes with dissidents are not uncommon.*Once inside the city, the PCs must locate the spy. They don't know his exact location, but they know where to find contacts inside the city that should be able to offer leads. When they attempt to communicate with contacts, however, they find them dead or recently jailed as part of a government crackdown. They must try less obvious avenues.*Some clues can be found at the contacts' homes, though local authorities might be alerted if the PCs snoop around. If the PCs make themselves too obvious, the spy will find them and take them to a safe house. He says the government has been closely monitoring the city for possible espionage activity and tells them that they need to get out now.*While the PCs are in the safe house, the government will start a massive military sweep, making the city into even more of a police state. The PCs will have to fight or sneak out with the spy in order to prevent knowledge of their involvement. This should involve a string of close battles and obstacles such as spike strips and locked doors. You should react to the PCs' plans, giving them multiple options and building tension through background events that are going on concurrently.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) city, escort mission, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, shady, siege, social, spirit, stealth, tactical planning, trade, travel, twist, villain==Welcome to the Stars*Aliens enter the solar system and broadcast a welcome to  the wider galactic community in stilted English. They announce that they are here to trade knowledge with humanity, and that their ship will orbit Mars for five years awaiting an expedition from Earth-they want to make sure that we're "worthy" trading partners, which we can prove by sending a human crew into Mars orbit. Play out a street scene where newscasters cut to the message live and everyone reacts to this staggering news: celebrating, shrugging, rioting, and pronouncing the end of the world.*The world's governments swiftly agree to assemble a multinational team to travel to Mars. The PCs should be members of the proposed expedition: astronauts, linguists, cryptography experts, biologists, scientists, and spies are all likely candidates. The crew will total 25 people; you'll probably want to play out the recruitment itself, as well as a "getting to know each other" scene with the crew.*As the expedition's ship nears completion, simulator training for the PCs becomes intense: They're subjected to numerous simulated disasters, strange alien interactions, and doomsday scenarios. As training narrows to focus on the PCs, scenes of goodbyes to friends, family, and crew members who didn't make cut the cut can be especially poignant.*During the journey, a crew member cracks and tries to sabotage the ship; she could be a member of an isolationist religious sect acting on secret orders, or someone who was driven mad by the loneliness of space.*When the PCs reach Mars, their first interaction with the aliens goes poorly. Despite precautions, the aliens-who are composed of rose- and lime-colored oblong shapes, linked together like sausages-unintentionally injure or kill several members of the PCs' crew (perhaps they emit a hazardous gas, or use sonic machinery damaging to humans). Tensions run high while the PCs establish that the aliens aren't attacking them, and then try to salvage the situation.*The aliens invite the PCs aboard their ship, the interior of which resembles a series of interwoven "spaghetti strands" barely navigable by humans. They explain how they travel the stars, share specifications for their ship's engines, and ask for something equally valuable in exchange. What they want depends on your campaign, but it should be something humanity wouldn't readily give up, possibly leading to an explosive confrontation. The aliens also reveal a dire threat to humanity-one that our species can only combat by taking to the stars.*This scenario makes an excellent starting point for a sci-fi campaign with a unique twist: The PCs get to play out first contact, and humanity is abruptly thrust onto the galactic stage.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, betrayal, epic impact, interplanetary, isolated area, monster, politics, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, social, travel, twist==Spaceport Feud*Two feuding families, the origin of their grievances long forgotten, both operate spaceship repair businesses in the same spaceport. Their conflict has involved minor crimes committed on both sides, and has escalated to blows on several occasions-and it now seems to have crossed the line into murder. A member of one family has been killed, her body dumped on their shop's doorstep. In fact, she was killed by a third party: another spaceport business owner who wants to see the families wipe each other out, as their feuding is bad for business.*If the PCs spend time in this area, you can bring out the details slowly, inviting them to explore the backstory behind the feud. If you need them to show up in the thick of it, a minor malfunction aboard their ship can prompt them to seek out the repair facility run by the murdered woman's family, where they'll get an earful about the feud and the murder.*While in for repairs, the PCs' ship is sabotaged. The repair shop claims it was agents of the other family, but to the PCs it looks as though the repair shop did the deed. In fact it was the third party, stirring the pot in the hopes of escalating the feud further-and while the PCs are figuring out how to handle the sabotage, a ship crashes into the repair facility. Its engines went haywire in orbit, and although the crew was able to make a semi-controlled atmospheric entry, they couldn't avoid the crash. This ship was also sabotaged, the culprit being a software virus injector drone that was intended to burn up on entry.*The drone suggests the involvement of the other family, but when confronted they vehemently deny playing a role in the sabotage-and claim that the rival family is responsible. In time, the PCs discover the third party and have a chance to mend the rift between the families. They can also play a role in whether or not vengeance is taken upon the third party for the murder, or whether justice is carried out according to law. As long as the result is positive for the two families, the PCs will gain fast allies in this spaceport.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, social, twist==Creating Your Own Worst Enemy*People in the poorest section of the city are regularly being torn apart or beaten to death, apparently without the use of weapons of any kind. The police are investigating more thoroughly than normal but aren't releasing any information. A crime syndicate is pulling strings to allocate funding and manpower to the investigation, as the area where the murders have occurred is part of their territory. The PCs might be hired by the police to investigate, get drawn into the situation helping an innocent affected by the attacks, or become involved after being attacked themselves.*A group of genetically and cybernetically modified pit fighters is behind the attacks. They were all enhanced by the syndicate, but broke free and are now enacting their revenge. They're smart, unique, and are controlled by a determined leader. If the fighters succeed, the syndicate will be crippled-but at the cost of many innocent bystanders.*Few people will reveal information about the fighters: some support their cause and others are just too scared to talk. A particularly greedy fence (to whom the fighters sell the spoils of their attacks) can be coerced into giving up information. The PCs should be able to track down at least one of the fighters, preferably in the middle of    attempting a covert crime. He proves tough on his own, but will escape to the fighters' sewer lair if given the opportunity.*If the PCs tail him there, they'll find the rest of the fighters gathered there for a strategy meeting. If the PCs lose the trail, the opportunity to track a fighter back to the lair will arise again at different attack site. Traces of the fighters can also be found through hacking, as one fighter regularly communicates with faraway family members using public terminals. The fighters are open to discussing the situation with non-hostile PCs, explaining that they're vigilantes fighting corruption and evil. They are, however, a hotheaded bunch and will attack if they feel threatened. If the PCs bring the fighters in, they receive a reward from the police or the crime syndicate. If the PCs side with the fighters or convince them to be more careful of innocents, the fighters will share the spoils of their attacks and provide any information they can to the PCs, but the syndicate will mark the PCs as targets and will become a serious threat.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (JA) alliance, city, planet-based, social, tactical planning==Blind Friendship*The PCs receive a video message from a friend who they haven't seen in some time. The friend is in an orbital shuttle and looks panicked. He says that he has become the target of a local crime lord and he needs help, and he gives them a set of coordinates. Then there's an explosion, the screen goes black, and the message ends.*The PCs travel to the system the friend specified, and no sooner have they arrived in-system than they are attacked by a small force of hostile ships. The pilots are hired thugs, and even if defeated and interrogated they can't reveal their employer: They were hired through a blind system via a third party.*When the PCs arrive at the coordinates, an armed group is surveying the wreckage of the shuttle. They're members of the crime lord's outfit, and are looking for proof of the friend's death. Depending on how the PCs present themselves, this could turn into a conflict.*If the crime boss is confronted, he will deny any involvement in the death of their friend. He'll admit that he disliked the friend, but insists that he didn't have a hand in his murder. The PCs can go down one of two paths: They can investigate the crash site, where they will discover clues that this was no accident and that their friend wasn't in the ship when it exploded-*everything was staged; or they can attack the crime boss and his organization in revenge for the death of their friend.*At the conclusion of whichever path they choose, their friend will reveal himself to them. If they discovered the faked crash, he'll admit that he set the whole thing up in the hope that the PCs would take out the crime boss for him, so that he could take over the crime organization. If they killed the crime boss, he will reveal himself after the man's death and thank the PCs for their help. Either way, the PCs aren't likely to be happy with the situation. This can be a springboard for future adventures, with their former friend as a new enemy-and perhaps a powerful crime lord, as well.*For this plot to work well, the "assassination" and the attack must appear to be the work of the crime boss, but the PCs should never be completely certain that he's responsible. Your players should be second-guessing themselves until they commit to a course of action.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) betrayal, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, relationship hook, shady, social, twist==Plague Times*A plague strikes the slums of a major city, and officials  scramble to quarantine the district while researchers begin looking into the disease. Military or corporate troops (or both) guard the perimeter and enforce the quarantine; they wear full body armor and filtration gear, and have orders to shoot on sight. The PCs are hired anonymously by someone with deep pockets and tasked with escorting a doctor, two nurses, and a corporate executive into the quarantine zone.*The executive explains that her company has found a cure for the plague, which she will be distributing to the people inside the zone. In actuality, while performing genetic research her company accidentally created the virus that caused the plague, and wants to quietly solve the problem before a full investigation takes place. After the entire team has been inoculated, the group enters the quarantine zone.*Their first problem is convincing the quarantined people, who are terrified and angry, that the cure is real. Some want to attack the group, while others simply don't believe the cure is real. Many speculate loudly that her corporation is simply engaging in medical experimentation on the cheap. Dozens of people die inside the zone that night. After 24 hours, however, those who were convinced to accept the vaccination have recovered completely-and the PCs are mobbed by dozens, then hundreds of others who want the vaccination.*It's up to the PCs to figure out how to keep the small medical team safe while still allowing them to perform their jobs; no one else on the team can fight, or knows anything about tactics. On the second day, they'll face a coordinated assault spearheaded by infected thugs who were hired by a local criminal organization; their aim is to take the vaccine supply for their own.*That night, the team's doctor approaches the PCs in secret and says that he believes the executive's vaccine is just a tweaked version of the plague virus itself-meaning that her company created the original virus. The next morning, the executive tells the team that a shipment of the vaccine will be air-dropped into the zone; they didn't know how many doses to bring, and they need more (which is true). The PCs must protect the drop zone from another attack by the same group or a different faction, complete the vaccinations, and then decide what to do with the doctor's information.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, betrayal, city, escort mission, innocent, isolated area, planet-based, siege, social, tactical planning, twist==Murder Most Foul*Two settlements on a frontier planet claim mining rights to a resource-rich region that lies between them. One settlement is older, but the other one is closer to the region. The fight between the two settlements has been long and occasionally violent, but the case has finally been settled in court. The oldest settlement was rewarded rights to 80% of the region, with the remainder going to the closer settlement. It was also stipulated that any mining done in the region cannot interfere with the water supply.*At the older settlement's official celebration of the victory, an explosion rips through the crowd. Despite the closer settlement's claim of innocence, and the calls for peace from their own leaders, some of the older settlement's citizens exact a little vengeance that very night. A range war erupts.*The real culprits are a secret alliance of citizens from the older settlement who don't want to see any more development. Some are simply afraid of change, some claim to speak for the environment, and others have their own personal agenda. They have informants in the police and government, and aren't afraid of spilling blood to achieve their goals.*Many clues will lead to the organization: the source of the explosives, suspicious figures seen before the explosion, someone trying to interfere with the investigation, and overheard conversations. Not all of the members condone the violence, especially given the size of the deadly explosion; some may try to help the PCs. However, if the PCs start getting close, they'll be invited to meet with someone claiming to know who's behind the attack-only to find an ambush, possibly involving more explosives.*Further clues lead to a mining widow's house, where the in-town organization is run. She's bitter about her husband's death in a mining accident, and has used the large settlement from his passing to sponsor the organization. She hates the mining company and will argue and fight to the bitter end, possibly trying to take out the party and herself with explosives.*The organization makes a final stand in a well-stocked hideout in a cave complex on the contested land. A map in the widow's house shows the location of the complex, but nothing more.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (KS) betrayal, city, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, politics, trade, villain==Between a Rock… *The PCs land on a sparsely populated planet to resupply, and while they're at a market in a larger town, a bomb goes off in the area and rebels attack the town. While shooting into the crowd, they drop propaganda about the plight of the outlying regions, human rights violations, and the murder of their leader. The rebels are repelled, but off-planet travel is restricted until the rebels are caught. Ships are denied exit from ports, and shot down if they attempt to leave. The increasingly oppressive government deploys cruisers above the planet to apprehend any ships that find a way out. The PCs are stranded.*The people's loyalties are divided. Many support the rebels' cause, but many others regard them as terrorists. The government offers rewards and bounties on various rebels, including off-planet rights and a pledge to lift all travel restrictions once the rebel leader is captured or killed. The PCs might hunt down a rebel to gain exit rights, but if not, a rebel seeks out the PCs and asks for help with their righteous cause. From the rebel the PCs can learn the password, time, and address of a rebel gathering.*The rebels' cause and the authorities' position shouldn't be black and white, but shades of gray. The government is draconian, but they're trying to preserve order. The rebels are idealists, but are also chaotic and violent. Provide information on both sides and let the players decide who, if anyone, is in the right.*The PCs can ally with the rebels or the authorities, or chart their own course between the two. The rebels plan to attack the spaceport and use its guns against the cruisers. The gun controls are in multiple buildings, guarded by soldiers, snipers, and coded security doors. The rebels have more men and some door codes, but need to work quickly to utilize their advantage. Whether defending or trying to take the control buildings, the PCs have a hard fight ahead of them. Depending on the side they chose and who wins the climactic battle, the PCs will either have help getting off the planet, or the travel restrictions will be lifted.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) alliance, difficult choice, intrigue, planet-based, politics, rebellion, sandbox, social==A Planet's Future*On an inhospitable world with a handful of settlements, valuable mineral resources, and a space elevator that leads to a vibrant orbital community, crime is dominated by a single, sprawling family. This family has many ties to non-criminals on the planet and in orbit through intermarriage, so thieves and smugglers often have law-abiding kin throughout the region. A new law enforcement official was brought in by the entity that owns the space elevator, and in one fell swoop he captured the family's kingpin and his council. Before anyone had time to react, he executed the kingpin-and people on the planet and in orbit rose up against him, laying siege to the orbital station where he has his headquarters. He shut down the space elevator in retaliation.*The PCs can be recruited by the official, the crime family, or the law-abiding citizens of the region. All three groups have the same overarching goal-to resume space elevator operations and let the planet return to peaceful productivity-but varying personal goals. The family wants the official dead, and a return to the old status quo; the official wants the family's influence reduced, starting with the execution of their council; and the locals just want to get back to doing business.*Whatever side the PCs are on, the three factions will take their own actions throughout the adventure; how the PCs act and react will determine the specific scenes that you play out. The official, not wanting to seem weak, will try to break the siege without calling for backup, and will threaten to execute the council. The crime family will try to assassinate the official, correctly guessing that his removal will solve their problems. The locals will try to broker a peace while staying out of the way.*Later, the family will mount an attack to test the official's defenses, and try to use that distraction to sneak in their assassins. The sheriff will make a false peace offer, and use it as cover to fire orbital weapons at one of the family's planetary facilities. Enraged, the family will kidnap the official's children as hostages, prompting a standoff-and the locals, many of whom died in the bombardment, will side with the family. This will make the official desperate, and he will try to destroy the space elevator outright-which would doom the planet's economic future.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) alliance, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, isolated area, planet-based, politics, rebellion, sandbox, shady, siege, social, stealth, tactical planning, trade==Two Households, Both Alike in Dignity*On a distant mining world, two families run most of the businesses in the planet's lone city. One runs the starport and the ore market, while the other runs the majority of the hotels and entertainment venues in town. The tension between the two families has recently reached critical mass. The PCs land just in time to be caught in the middle of a gun battle between the two sides, and witness the sheriff getting cut down as he tries to stop it. Until something is done about this feud, whatever the PCs came to this world to accomplish simply won't be doable.*The head of the hoteliers' family recently died, and his hot-tempered son has taken over. Several members of the starport family were partying hard in the nicest cathouse in town, and there was a brawl. Brawls aren't uncommon, but after a drunken argument over a woman this one turned ugly, fast. The cathouse was trashed and one of the hoteliers was killed.*The hoteliers demanded that the other family pay them blood money and rebuild the cathouse. The starport family refused but counter-offered free transport of materials to aid in the rebuilding effort. Since then, fights have broken out, the ore-market has shut down after a bombing, and family members on both sides have been killed. The city's economy has halted as the two sides crank up the security and look for hired guns.*While the situation is bad, the PCs do have assets. The position of sheriff is open, and still carries authority for anyone willing to claim it. A fair number of unemployed workers wish to steer clear of the feud, but will follow anyone who steps up and takes charge. And, while explosives and thugs are abundant, there is no serious weaponry on the planet and none of the inhabitants have military expertise.*The families could be forced to negotiate, although the PCs' authority to do so will be challenged. Either side will respond to perceived aggression by sending a hit squad led by a family member. A diplomatic approach requires earning both sides' trust by doing favors for them while not alienating the other side, and then finally resolving their differences. The hoteliers need orbital transportation (of people, medicine, food, etc.), and the starport family needs ready access to high-end accommodations for their VIP customers.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Western*Tags: (KS) alliance, city, intrigue, planet-based, politics, rebellion, sandbox, social, tactical planning, trade==The Abel Protocol*The PCs have been getting some much-needed rest and relaxation on a space station, and as they go about their business one or more of the PCs gets caught in malfunctioning airlock. The PCs narrowly escape, but several NPCs are ejected into space without suits. An hour later, another PC is trapped in a section of the station that fills with toxic gas-caused by another malfunction-and barely avoids being killed. The station's operators are now extremely worried about the possibility of a system-wide failure or a saboteur on the station, and they ask the PCs for help.*Upon inspection of station logs and security footage, a single man is observed near the scene of both incidents. Security picks him up for questioning. While being questioned, the man is nervous, but insists that he's innocent. A power unit in the interrogation room explodes, and the man escapes.*A manhunt begins, with the PCs assisting station personnel. During the hunt, the PCs investigate the station's computer system and uncover evidence that suggests that the airlock and gas malfunctions were computer-related. Isolating some specific code, they see that both malfunctions were apparently assassination attempts against the missing man.*Unbeknownst to the PCs, a rogue AI is loose in the station's computer system, and it has tracked the man to an area near the station's reactor core. The AI has initiated a reactor meltdown in order to kill the man. The AI plans to download itself into a life pod and escape before the station is destroyed.*The PCs will need to capture the man to find out why the AI has targeted him, while at the same time stopping the core meltdown. When the man is found, he again protests that he's innocent; the PCs must convince him to tell them the truth. When they do, he will confess that he killed his brother, his scientific rival, over a recent discovery. At this, the AI will stand down and allow the man to be taken into custody for the murder: It is a personality imprint of the man's brother, created as an insurance policy in the event of his death, and it was seeking revenge.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, deadline, innocent, investigative, planet-based==Search and Destroy*Rumors have begun to spread that a notorious space pirate   is planning a big heist. The PCs have been hired to capture or kill him before he can pull it off. Their employer pays them half of the bounty up front, and can loan them a ship if necessary (a retrofitted freighter with light weapons and radiation shields). He also tells them the pirate's rumored whereabouts: an uninhabited system known for its trinary star, high radiation levels, and dangerous asteroid belts.*The trinary system is a hellish place, with six planets baked by the triple sun and millions of asteroids spread throughout space, as well as in belts around each planet. Radiation levels from the suns are incredibly high on all but the most distant planet, making that world and its asteroid belt the most likely hiding places for the pirate. When the PCs arrive, a heavy magnetic storm is underway, making entry into the system difficult even for a skilled pilot. They also pick up a weak distress signal from one of the inner worlds; its coding indicates a small freighter.*The signal is actually from a pirate vessel, though not the pirate the PCs are after: It's one of his rivals, who arrived earlier and tried to take him out. The pirate shot them down and left them to die-in a few hours, their radiation shielding will fail. If the PCs rescue them, the stranded pirates will tell them that their target has set up space mines all around the best hiding spots, and is actually lurking on the far side of one of the suns in a heavily shielded ship. If the PCs get the drop on him, they may be able to disable his engines before he can flee. If not, he'll use the suns to his advantage, leading them on a chase that skims dangerously close to the suns before venturing into one of the large asteroid belts.*During the pursuit, another ship will enter the system: a mercenary group's heavy cruiser, capable of destroying both the PCs and the pirate ship with relative ease. They signal the PCs to break off and let them claim their quarry. Moments later, the pirate signals that if the PCs help him escape, he will pay them twice whatever they would have earned for capturing him.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling*Tags: (MR) difficult choice, interplanetary, isolated area, race, rivalry, shady, social, tactical planning, travel, twist, villain==Digital Stud*Without warning, an alien craft in orbit around a technologically advanced world steals the AI that controls the entire planet's information and communication network. The craft broadcasted no warnings, made no demands, and did nothing suspicious prior to pulling off its spectacular theft-a theft no one would have thought possible. It takes hours for the authorities to figure out what happened, and in the chaos of the network's collapse all manner of minor and major disasters occur planet-wide. A planetary distress signal is broadcast, and the PCs are in range.*The PCs receive a jumbled, low-grade signal requesting urgent assistance that contains a description of the alien craft and what it stole, as well as its last known trajectory. The PCs must track down this ship and recover the AI.*In fact, the AI wasn't stolen: It was borrowed by aliens who seek to "mate" the AI with the planetary AI on their home world, a process which would make their own AI more advanced. Knowing that no one would give up a planetary AI, they kidnapped this one and are en route to their home world-but the stolen AI is causing problems for them: It wants to escape its captors.*The chase is on, and in the course of this adventure the PCs will face the following challenges: navigation through space hazards (a nebula, an asteroid field, etc.); a coded signal from the kidnapped AI, which piggybacks the signal and tries to take over their ship's computer in a last-ditch escape attempt-causing a massive system failure that requires a reboot, during which time they must try to keep the ship from falling apart; and a skirmish with alien interceptors sent to delay the PCs.*The finale is a confrontation with the alien ship, which has been weakened by the AI's constant attempts to shut it down. When the PCs have the upper hand, the aliens will surrender and share their plan with the party. Will the PCs allow the mating to take place? Can they forge a relationship with the aliens? Or will they punish the aliens for the harm they caused to the AI's planet?*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, difficult choice, epic impact, innocent, interplanetary, race, travel==The Quickest Path between Two Points*A small section of an interplanetary trade route has become known as "Dead Man's Pass" due to the numerous pirate attacks in the area. The planets at either end of the trade route are starting to suffer greatly from a lack of supplies. The military has no idea how the pirate ships are getting into the area, and survivors of attacks report no long-range ships being used by the pirates. The military hires the PCs to look into the issue, thinking that a civilian group might be able to better infiltrate the pirates' ranks.*The PCs are tasked with finding out where the ships are coming from. Once they've located the pirates' base, they are to activate an encoded transmitter that will call in a fleet to destroy it. The PCs are left to their own devices as to how to find the base.*The PCs might try to join the pirates, pretending a desire to take up a life of piracy. They may be able to trace stolen goods through the black market in order to contact the pirates. The pirates operate in many sectors and won't immediately reveal the secret of Dead Man's Pass unless the PCs prove their loyalty. The PCs may encounter a sub-lieutenant who is talkative and friendly, and who becomes open to bribes or talks too much when drunk. The PCs might get their ship captured, pretending to be carrying colonists or valuable goods, or rig an old cargo carrier (which the military can provide) with a remote control system and follow it. These are just a few options-see what your players come up with and incorporate their plans into the resolution.*The pirates have outfitted a derelict ship of incredible size with a fast, powerful engine. It has no maneuverability but acts like a high-speed train when it can travel along a straight, obstruction-free path between two locations. The pirates use this to transport their huge fleet of small ships-all of which fit inside the carved-out hull-to and from their distant base. Once the PCs have found the location of the base, they can activate the transmitter-which will inevitably be detected by the pirates, revealing the PCs. The PCs will have to hold out until the military gets there, which will take a while since the base is further away than they anticipated.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling*Tags: (JA) alliance, interplanetary, investigative, sandbox, shady, trade, travel==Test Run*The assistant to the powerful CEO of an aerospace company contacts the PCs about a very discreet, highly lucrative job. In the initial interview, the assistant delves into the PCs' capabilities and backgrounds. The PCs then meet with the CEO (no weapons allowed), who tells them that one of his most trusted employees has disappeared along with some critical information, and that she must be found. He offers the PCs the use of a very fast experimental ship if they're willing to test it out for him. He also provides them with information concerning the employee, and offers a substantial bonus if the employee can be returned without stockholders, the authorities, or company valuators finding out.*The ship is an experimental craft with capabilities exceeding almost every other vessel out there, though it isn't all that reliable. Possible abilities include stunning speed and maneuverability, cloaking, covert "piggybacking" (flying within another ship's blind spot, almost hull-to-hull), eavesdropping, and sensor jamming. Shortly after the party departs on their mission, the entire sector is placed on high alert for the theft of an experimental military craft by persons considered armed and extremely dangerous.*If the party contacts the CEO for help, he simply says, "Don't worry about finding that employee; you've got your hands full. After all, you did agree to test the craft for me, and this sounds like a great test." He then disconnects and ignores future calls.*In order to clear their name, the party must avoid capture using the ship's experimental capabilities while making their way back to the starting planet. They should then gain entrance to the corporate HQ, a feat made difficult by the building's high alert status. Once inside, they must avoid security and track down the CEO, who won't be easy to find as he isn't in his office. Once confronted, the CEO will call off the dogs, congratulate the PCs on their success and even offer them a sizable check for their troubles.*To make the PCs' lives easier, the CEO's assistant may offer advice to them via the ship's communications system; he can do so out of sympathy for the party or a desire to advance his own career.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (KS) bearers, betrayal, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, shady, stealth, travel, twist==Shiny Toy Guns*When the PCs arrive on a new world, they are detained in the spaceport while some of their weapons are examined by technicians. The techs tell them that someone recently attempted to assassinate the planetary governor, and that all weapons matching the type used in the crime must be inspected. The techs then disappear, returning hours later with military police: They're there to arrest one of the PCs for trying to kill the governor, and the others as accessories.*Behind the scenes, the criminal cartel responsible for the assassination attempt has bribed one of the technicians to falsely identify one of the PCs' guns as the assassin's discarded weapon. The cartel has identified the PCs as a group capable of carrying out the assassination, and wants to force them to make a second attempt on their behalf.*If the PCs resist arrest, they can likely overcome the police; this will force them to go on the lam, as the planet is already on high alert. If they go quietly, they will be taken to a maximum-security prison outside the main city. That night (likely after they have tried an escape attempt of their own, to no avail), the PCs' cell doors are all mysteriously unlocked at the same time. Exiting their cells, they must evade the lighter-than-usual guard patrols and make their escape.*The cartel is behind this, as well, and while the PCs are laying low and figuring out what to do, they're approached by a cartel representative. She offers them a large sum of money and free passage off-world if they assassinate the governor. If the PCs accept, they can buy themselves time to expose the cartel's involvement and prove their own innocence. Arranging another meeting and recording the proceedings is the simplest way to go about this-but they are under cartel observation.*When the cartel catches wind of the PCs' scheme, they send a large force of mercenary killers to take them out. As the tide turns against the mercenaries and the battle moves out into a public area, the cartel decides to intervene directly, and sends two of their gunships to polish off the PCs once and for all. The authorities are drawn to the scene, resulting in a chaotic all-out battle. Because of the gunships, the PCs now have the proof they need that the cartel was behind the assassination attempt, and not them.*This adventure can be an excellent way to set the stage for a larger story arc revolving around conflict between the government and the cartel, with the PCs in the thick of things.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) city, combat-heavy, difficult choice, epic challenge, epic impact, interplanetary, mass combat, politics, rebellion, shady, stealth, villain==Disaster Cyclone*A strong summer storm hits the decadent coastal city  where the PCs are enjoying a bit of rest and relaxation. The storm quickly builds into a real monster, catching everyone off guard. The storm devastates the city, and law and order breaks down as fear and opportunistic crime take over. Flying becomes nearly impossible in the rising winds, and even ground transportation is difficult as the waters rise and trees and buildings fall across the roads.*The PCs hear that a rundown nursing home located on low ground has not yet been evacuated, although the caregivers have already fled. Dozens of patients, all of whom have some kind of disability, need to be calmed down and somehow escorted to safer ground.*The corrupt government collapses in the face of the storm, and the PCs may insert themselves into the leadership vacuum or may work as independent troubleshooters. Reports come in of people needing assistance: a local police station that's flooding, a group trying to break into a shopping complex (either out of desperation or greed), and a pumping station in need of a fuel delivery. The PCs can't help everyone at the same time, and must decide where they're most needed.*Any outdoor activity is impossible as the storm hits, but there's more to do as it fades, from rescuing wealthy guests at a five-star resort from looters to escorting prisoners from a flooded jail. Food, medicine, and supplies need to be delivered and safeguarded. Someone needs to reassure and possibly inspire the locals.*Outside help will eventually arrive to relieve the PCs of their responsibilities, but it will take some time. Nearly every craft in the spaceport is damaged, as is the facility itself and the roads leading out of town are blocked. Low-tech solutions may work best in such a situation, and frontier or military skills will come in handy.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, epic impact, escort mission, innocent, mature themes, planet-based==A Second Sun*A doomsday weapon is launched into the planet's  atmosphere and begins rapidly converting air molecules into pure heat. The area below the suspended warhead is rapidly baked by this several-thousand-degree miniature sun, and atmospheric pressure declines around the world as air is sucked in and consumed at a terrible rate.*Surviving the initial panic is the first major challenge for the PCs in this adventure. Stockpiling and looting are commonplace. People rush to spaceports on the side of the planet furthest away from the new sun, and mines become popular for their heat shielding. Re-breathers and masks are fiercely fought over by those who cannot quickly flee the planet.*Once the situation has stabilized somewhat, which could take days and can be abstracted to suit your game, the PCs can begin trying to neutralize the weapon. Research will reveal that it was created by an ancient alien culture thought to have died out millennia ago. Their weapons were harmonically controlled, and if the right harmonics can be applied to this weapon it may shut down. Approaching the weapon is almost impossible, and beaming a harmonic pulse from a distance distorts its effects too greatly. A heavily shielded projectile carrying a harmonic payload might do the trick; other options specific to your setting may also provide methods to overcome the threat.*After the weapon has been disabled-saving the world-the PCs can try to track down the ship that launched the attack. A faint sensor trail suggests that the weapon coasted into planetary orbit after a slingshot maneuver around the planet's moon. Monitoring stations there can provide further clues, eventually leading the PCs to the offending ship.*When the PCs catch up to the ship, they find that it is a retrofitted merchant vessel, not a warship of any kind, and its armaments are quite light. If they open communications with the ship, the captain will acknowledge that he took on a contract to dump a sealed cargo container on a slingshot trajectory around the moon-he assumed it was a smuggling run, and had no idea the container housed a weapon. He offers to take the PCs to his employer, a representative of an alien race that, as the PCs will learn, sought to "clear out the vermin" and prepare the planet for a mining project in a few hundred years. This can be a springboard for further adventures.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) deadline, epic challenge, epic impact, interplanetary, investigative, race, travel, villain==Hull Breach*The PCs are aboard a space station when klaxons begin to wail: A hull breach is in progress in a nearby sector-and then in the sector adjacent to that one, and then in one even closer to them. Soon the PCs are running ahead the breach, desperately seeking a safe area.*When they have time to collect themselves, they see that the breaches are spreading out from one compartment. If the reason for the breaches isn't determined, and something isn't done to stop it, the entire station will be torn apart. What happened is that a science project being developed in a station lab has had an unexpected side effect. A research group was creating nanites for ore processing, but made some programming errors: The nanites now decompose the main element found in the hulls of space ships and the exteriors of space stations. A power fluctuation in the containment system released them into the station, and they are now spreading from section to section and weakening the station's exterior.*As they race to stop the spread of the nanites, the PCs will have to rescue a group of civilians who are trapped in a rapidly decaying section of the station. They'll also need to obtain a sample of material from a contaminated area, which will require going into a decaying section of the station and staying long enough to get a decent-sized sample.*Once they have a sample, it will need to be analyzed; this will lead the PCs to discover the nanites, and identify what specific material they're disassembling. Tracking down survivors of the original collapsed section, the lab, will lead them to a researcher who is now trapped in another failing section. Rescuing him is the key to creating counter-nanites that can arrest the decay of the space station's structure, saving everyone aboard.*This is a non-combat adventure, and the PCs will need a good mix of scientific and technical skills to solve the mystery and save the station; a combat-oriented group likely won't enjoy this adventure. If the PCs own a ship and consider escape, infect their ship to keep the pressure on.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, deadline, innocent, investigative, planet-based==Peace Summit*Five leaders of various factions are meeting for a peace and trade summit; the summit is expected to benefit the entire region and prevent infighting. Unfortunately, the station is attacked by pirates. All means of outside communication are jammed, and the station's security forces are dead or cut off from the faction leaders. Much of the station is ruined, with limited internal communications and electricity, though life support still functions. The PCs are on board and are close enough to escort the leaders to an escape vessel.*A speaker buzzes to life near the PCs. The security chief is watching them on camera, and he begs for their help. He can direct the PCs to the leaders, but they'll have to use access tubes, open sealed doors, and fight or bypass the pirates that are looting the station. This portion of the adventure should be a desperate rush through a disaster scene to reach the PCs' goal. Set a timer or put emphasis on dangling, sparking wires and buckling walls for added effect.*One of the factions actually staged the pirate attack. Clues such as types of weapons employed, the structure of the pirate group, and the commands used by the pirates will point toward one of the factions. This shouldn't be revealed right away, but should become increasingly evident as the PCs progress through the adventure.*When the PCs arrive, they find the leaders safe and engaged in their favorite pastime: incessant bickering. Some want to wait for military troops to arrive, while others want to attempt an escape immediately. During the argument, a pirate breaks in and tries to kill one of the leaders; this convinces them that they need to leave. The way to safety, be it on the PCs' ship or another transport, must be along a different route because of new damage to the station. More pirates and obstacles will be encountered, now with the added hassle of protecting the leaders.*Once on board their transport, the security chief gives the PCs the coordinates for a safe location. One of the leaders becomes appreciably nervous at this suggestion. Once the PCs are near, the nervous leader reveals a bomb and tries to hijack the ship and reroute it to a new destination. The standoff should be tense, but leave options open for the PCs to win. Once he has been overcome, the PCs can turn the leader in and collect a decent reward from the other four factions. The leaders then finish the talks and impose sanctions against the rogue faction.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) alliance, betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, epic impact, escort mission, innocent, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, politics, race, siege, social, travel, twist, villain==In the Blood*While the PCs are at a spaceport, they see a passenger exit a freighter, step into the sunlight, and explode in a cloud of dust. The freighter has just returned from a remote colony world, and it brought with it a virus that turns people into what are essentially vampires. Several others who are unknowingly carrying the virus have already disembarked, and are now scattered throughout the spaceport.*The virus can be passed either through the mucus membranes (like the flu), or directly when a "vampire" feeds. It takes 12 hours for an infected person to become a vampire, but they begin showing signs around the four-hour mark. As this is a new virus, there is no cure-although certain flu vaccines can slow the change and some cancer drugs can delay it for much longer. Infected people become stronger and faster, grow fangs, and require human blood to survive; they also turn to dust when exposed to sunlight, but aren't affected by garlic, crosses, etc.*The spaceport is put in lockdown mode immediately, before any ships can depart. Port authorities also quarantine the freighter and try to round up those passengers who had already disembarked. They miss three of them, and within hours these three have become vampires. Until a medical frigate arrives, port authorities intend to keep the port locked down-and the frigate is eight hours away.*It doesn't take long to learn the incubation period of the virus, so the PCs will know that even if they are infected, they won't turn into vampires before the frigate arrives to help. They can investigate the freighter and talk to the quarantined crew, who will describe the colony world where the virus originated. While on board, they're spotted by a true vampire from the colony, for whom the spread of the virus means the continuation of his species. He will shadow them as they try to deal with the situation and then strike when the moment is right.*The three vampires in the spaceport will also begin killing guards and port officials. They are the main vectors for the spread of the virus, but as hours pass, more people (and perhaps the PCs) will begin showing signs of infection as well. The PCs need to hold out until the frigate arrives, and keep the port from descending into anarchy. The frigate will be able to create a cure within a few hours of its arrival.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) city, combat-heavy, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, madness, monster, race, sandbox, siege, social, villain==When Two Disasters Just Won't Do the Trick*The PCs are hired to infiltrate enemy lines on a war-torn planet, slipping in disguised as merchants as part of a trade caravan. The planet has been wracked by war for years, but normal life continues-including trade, which is vital for resupplying both armies. The caravan is a ragtag collection of converted armored personnel carriers, open-topped flatbed crawlers, and smaller personal vehicles. Only the caravan master is aware of the PCs' true identities.*Once through enemy lines, the PCs have time for some scouting. Narrowly avoiding military patrols, they gather some good intelligence for their employer-including the fact that the army is nearly done building a planet-busting weapon of truly epic destructive power. Before they can get back to the caravan, a storm rolls in, and within 10 minutes, the storm is blasting them with hail fierce enough to tear through clothing.*Struggling through the storm, the PCs find themselves in a landslide zone. The sudden influx of water and hail is causing mudslides throughout the enemy encampment, and the PCs are thrown in with several groups of enemy soldiers. Too worried about survival to care about the spies in their midst-for the moment, at least-the soldiers join up with them and they all try to get to safer ground.*Reaching high ground, the PCs see that the entire field hospital is just minutes away from being destroyed by an earthquake, the third disaster to strike since they arrived. They must rescue the patients and get as many people as possible to safety.*When the dust clears and the storm abates, they have several quandaries to face. Having fought side-by-side with the soldiers, do they still want to complete their mission? Can they afford not to share news of the planet-busting weapon? And as three disasters striking in a row isn't a normal occurrence, is it possible that they were caused by a similarly destructive weapon used by the enemy?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) alliance, difficult choice, intrigue, planet-based, politics, race, roleplaying-heavy, social==Cash Crops*The colony's newly elected council decides to grow cash crops instead of food in order to invest in a new startup venture. Unfortunately, the deal turns out to be a scam and the colony suddenly finds itself with no food, no means to buy food, and no money for necessary repairs to life support systems. It becomes common knowledge in certain circles that the council is looking for someone to reacquire their money by any means necessary. Be sure to keep the urgency and fate of the colony present in the PCs' minds throughout this adventure.*The scammers are a pair of well-known grifters traveling in a unique spaceship. They can be tracked by interviewing those who have had recent contact with them. Also, hacking a database of manifests shows that the grifters never stay in one place for too long, but have a stable pattern of movement. They have a good contact network, and quickly realize that they're being followed. Once the grifters know that the PCs are on their tail, they'll attempt to poison the well by painting the PCs as the scammers. The PCs will suddenly find that some people are unwilling to assist their pursuit.*The PCs can find a definite clue to the grifters' whereabouts in one specific way, however. One of them is quite amorous, and has many lovers and a few children. He keeps in contact with some of the mothers, and they can provide a true and accurate route to him.*When confronted, the grifters will attempt to flee. However, the authorities have no love for these con artists and will grant the PCs permission to use any force necessary to stop them. The grifters aren't great in a fight, but are very cunning and make sure to set up traps and bolt holes in their regular locations. When captured, the PCs must find a way to extract the funds. The con artists will bow to pressure, but fear jail more than torture. An interesting twist is to find a way for the PCs to scam the grifters themselves, possibly taking advantage of the combined enmity of the multitudes who hate them.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) interplanetary, investigative, politics, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, shady, social, twist, villain==Pride of Ownership*A friend of the PCs gifts them with a slave that he  recently bought on the cheap at auction. He confides that the slave, a young boy, is hopeless at most tasks, but can read and write. The boy is quiet, tries not to draw attention to himself, and is willing to work hard. He lacks experience with most tasks, but learns quickly.*If his new owners free him or take an interest in his past, he explains calmly that his father owned a large corporation and that he was kidnapped when he was four years old. He doesn't remember the company's name, but might recognize the symbol if the PCs show him some corporate logos.*Investigating the boy's situation reveals that someone has put traps and traces in place to entangle data-hunters, and the PCs may be caught if they search too casually. The presence of those keyword traps should make the PCs suspicious.*The PCs are attacked by a hit team sent by the boy's uncle, who is the person responsible for his kidnapping and enslavement. He sought to make the boy disappear for sinister reasons of his own (which can vary depending on your campaign), and is angered to find that his plan failed. When the PCs try to get in touch with the boy's parents, they're stymied by the layers of bureaucracy protecting the family from unwanted contact. Their efforts also alert the uncle, who "goes on vacation" before the truth comes out.*Once contact is made with the boy's parents, the uncle's last surprise comes into play: At the reunion, one of the father's two bodyguards-a formidable foe-murders his partner before attempting to kill the father and the PCs. If the PCs can protect the father, he'll be grateful-and he'll ask them to help him end the uncle's threat to his family and to the corporation. The PCs must track down the uncle, who will simultaneously be using his connections to try and take over the company from within.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) escort mission, innocent, investigative, planet-based, politics, race, relationship hook, twist, villain==The Protectors*While visiting a friend or making a delivery run to a backwater planet-a former war zone that now endures prolonged military occupation-the party is begged by a frightened native to rescue her young brother. The brother has been kidnapped and is going to be sold as a prostitute.*The kidnappers are members of the occupying force. They're misusing their authority in the worst way possible, and selling the local children into slavery. The rescue is pretty straightforward: find the building, sneak or force their way in, and rescue the boy. A complication arises when the party discovers the scope of operation. Scores of young boys and girls are being shipped off-planet, and there's evidence that the local government, up to the highest ranking official, is involved.*The war zone is quite large, and although the PCs will be hunted after the rescue, the party shouldn't have too much of a problem finding allies and hiding places. Weapons are available but not easy to come by, and aren't of very good quality. Once the party gets involved in the situation, they find that the natives are ready to re-declare war, this time on the occupiers. They also know that unless the truth is exposed, a renewed war will draw harsh disapproval from the rest of the galactic sector.*The off-planet headquarters of the occupying force is willing to begin investigations into the situation, but must have solid evidence brought before them. The local media have been scared into silence, but will cover the story if their protection can be guaranteed. Larger news organizations are currently unaware of the situation, but would definitely be interested in a bombshell like this.*The party may take a number of approaches. They can try to lead a rebellion against the occupiers and negotiate from a position of strength, which will involve direct attacks. They can focus on rescuing as many of the children as possible, or they can try to take evidence to the commanders of the occupying military organization. Within all of these solutions, the opportunity to involve the news organizations presents itself.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Supernatural, Western*Tags: (KS) city, difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mass combat, mature themes, planet-based, politics, rebellion, sandbox, social, stealth, tactical planning, trade==Hive Mind*The PCs intercept a distress call from a medical freighter that's delivering medicine for an outbreak at a nearby colony. The ship was badly damaged and many of the crewmembers are wounded. The captain says that they were attacked by a ship with no human crew-either AI-piloted or flown by remote-which then sent drones aboard to steal the medicine. The medicine can be easily converted into an illicit drug, and is worth a fortune on the black market. If the colony doesn't get the medicine by tomorrow, thousands will die.*The pirate vessel is under the control of an AI that heads up a massive drug ring; the AI is housed in a hollow asteroid which serves as the ring's base of operations. The PCs track the ship to this asteroid, and long-range scans show that the conversion process from medicine to drug is already underway. It will take only an hour to convert the entire supply.*To stop the conversion, the PCs must get past the base's drone defenses, fight their way through the claustrophobic tunnels that honeycomb the asteroid in order to reach the drug conversion lab, halt the process, and escape with the remaining medicine. This is made more complicated by the AI, which controls the entire drone network: What any drone sees, all of them see, and what they know, the AI knows. All computer systems in the base are also under the AI's control, including doors, elevators, and airlocks.*This scenario can be tackled as a straightforward run-and-gun mission, with the PCs blasting their way through the drone defenses and forcing locked doors within the asteroid. It can also be run as a stealth operation, with the PCs shutting down drones in ways that don't reveal their presence and making their way to the drug conversion lab without alerting the AI.*To create a tense atmosphere, start a timer (a stopwatch or an egg timer will work well) when the PCs reach the asteroid, and run the adventure in pseudo-real-time. The longer it takes, the less of the drug is available for the colonists; they need at least 30% of the supply in order to survive until an additional batch can be delivered. Don't tell your players the exact number, but give them ways to find it out in-game.*If you want to use the AI as a recurring villain, have its core processors be located off the asteroid; the asteroid AI is a local copy, and destroying it won't take out the real power behind the drug ring.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, combat-heavy, deadline, interplanetary, isolated area, stealth, villain==Colony Conflicted*The PCs are traveling aboard a large spaceship when the ship develops an engine problem and is forced to land at the nearest location for repairs. The place is listed in their database as a prison moon, and they're surprised to discover that they've landed on what seems to be a peaceful farming colony. The inhabitants have come to this place seeking a simpler life and use only the technology that's necessary for their basic survival. There is no off-moon communication.*The mayor says it will take quite some time to acquire the parts necessary to get the ship flight-ready again. She wishes to buy time so that she might sell the PCs on the colonists' way of life, and instead of facilitating repairs secretly begins dismantling the ship, one part at a time. She fears that if the ship remains intact, the locals will want to come and see it, whereas if it's just a hulk, they'll be safe from the evils of its technology.*While on the colony, interactions are plentiful. At the behest of the mayor, many people try to convince the PCs of the benefits of the simple life. Many of the younger colonists are intrigued by the PCs and want to know what the outside universe is like. Problems should be presented that the PCs can overcome using their technology-wild beasts that attack the colony might be defeated by the PCs' weapons, for example. Some colonists whose crops aren't thriving may seek the help of the PCs, who can solve the issue with a device that divines (or even controls) weather. Confront the PCs with moral dilemmas that compel them to help.*Meanwhile, the PCs might discover missing parts from their ship or see people taking packages away from the colony at night. If confronted, the mayor denies any wrongdoing, saying only that her colonists must be protected from outside influences. Many locals are intrigued by the PCs' technology and want to reestablish contact. If the PCs fan this fire, the colonists might rescue them but the unity of the people on this idyllic colony will be fractured. The mayor might also be convinced that the PCs pose too much of a threat and decide that eliminating them permanently is the best option.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) betrayal, difficult choice, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, politics, rebellion, sandbox, social, travel, twist==The Prophet Motive*While visiting a theocracy run by a hereditary "messiah," the PCs encounter a group of obviously poor people who stare at and follow them for a short while. Later that day or the next, a larger group follows suit, but more aggressively. All will flee if confronted. One visibly excited young man finally approaches the PCs on his knees. He begs the PCs to meet with the messiah, "in accordance with prophecy."*The young man introduces the PCs to the "true messiah," saying that the current leader is obviously false. He is an educated man of calm demeanor who speaks of reforming the national religion and returning to the spirit of the original holy writings, not the dictatorial commandments now being handed down. He never claims to be the true messiah, only a brother to all, and invites the PCs to join him for dinner.*The rebels are enthusiastic, but they know little of tactics. If asked why he doesn't lead them, the true messiah calmly replies, "I know nothing of violence, except that it is sometimes necessary, and that it is your job." Almost on cue, the excited young man shows the PCs an old painting of the ascendance of the true messiah, surrounded by his angels. Sure enough, some of the angels do resemble the PCs.*    After the meal, a government strike team raids the building, shooting wildly at everyone-especially noncombatants. Members of the rebel group gladly jump in front of the PCs, taking the blasts as others try to herd the PCs away. The strike team can be fought off, but many noncombatants die in the process.*The government marks the PCs as infidels and begins to hunt them while simultaneously cracking down on any suspected rebels. The PCs are expected to lead the rebellion, which culminates in an attempt to assassinate the current messiah at his public confirmation ceremony in two weeks. Because of the increasingly violent crackdown and oppression, fervent belief in the prophecy, and the leadership of the PCs, the rebellion begins to succeed. If the true messiah takes the current messiah's place, he publicly rewards the "angels" for their help. In private, he apologizes, confessing that the painting was a fake, and that he orchestrated key events in order to convince the others of the prophecies.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) alliance, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, planet-based, rebellion, religion, social, tactical planning, twist==The Prodigal Pawn*A planet's prefect has a son who has been over-indulged  all of his life, and been allowed to pursue many endeavors without ever dedicating himself to anything serious. As a teenager, he was without drive or purpose and became involved in a radical, but seemingly harmless, political group. The prefect turned a blind eye to it, thinking that the son would simply come around as he got older.*The prefect was recently mortally wounded in an accident. He's being kept alive by the best medical technology, but his time is quickly running out. His son has vanished; the radical group has hidden him away, taking advantage of the situation to mount a full-scale rebellion against the government with the prefect's son as their poster boy.*On his death bed, the prefect hires the PCs to find his son and return him to the palace. He intends to convince his son to fulfill his hereditary duties as the new prefect. As his son has been heavily indoctrinated, this won't be easy, but the prefect is sure that he can convince him to do the right thing.*The political group is actually a front for an alien advance force that has gotten a foothold on the planet, and has been preparing for a full-scale invasion, amassing weapons and followers to use in a violent overthrow of the government. They took in the son in hopes of using him against his father in the future, but the accident creates a perfect opportunity to try to install the son as their puppet.*To stop the aliens from succeeding, the PCs must determine where the son is being held. The most efficient way to do this is to raid one of the group's offices and ransack it for evidence. Once they know where to find the son, they have to rescue him from the compound where the aliens have him sequestered. During the raid, they'll learn the true nature of the rebel group when they encounter the aliens face-to-face.*With the prefect's son in tow, the PCs must escape their alien pursuers, deliver the son to the prefect's palace, and then join forces with the palace guard to repel an all-out assault on the palace grounds-the aliens' last-ditch effort to salvage their plan.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) alliance, city, combat-heavy, monster, planet-based, politics, rebellion, tactical planning==Crystal Crazy*A dramatic discovery is made on a sparsely settled  planet while the PCs are there: The planet has extensive, easily excavated deposits of rare weapons-grade crystals used in laser systems. News of this discovery spurs thousands of people each day to abandon their dead-end jobs and travel to the planet in hopes of striking it rich. This situation is the basis for a sandbox adventure: The PCs have many options, and the narrative will continue around them.*Many of the settlers who were already on planet head to the caves to stake claims before waves of other miners can sweep in and contest them. Other settlers expand their businesses to provide services to miners. The local mining corporation takes advantage of the disruption-and huge projected profits-to agitate the locals to secede from the government that controls their planet (and numerous others). A new government would be easily swayed to lower extraction rates, and might be strong-armed into granting a monopoly on mining licenses.*If the PCs try their hand at mining, they quickly find that it's a rough-and-tumble business. It takes a credible threat of force to keep interlopers away from their excavations, and the businesses that serve the miners charge far more than they could get away with anywhere else-but few dare to leave their claim unprotected long enough to find a better deal.*If the party is famous, the secession movement will try to recruit them to help justify their planned rebellion. If they have skill as diplomats, they might be appointed as ambassadors and assigned to secure recognition from governments on other worlds. That's a tricky proposition: The PCs need to find allies who were rivals of the old government, but who won't simply overwhelm the new republic.*PCs loyal to the former government are sounded out for their loyalties and induced to switch. The locals are mostly caught up in "crystal fever," and don't carefully consider the long-term effects of planetary independence. Protecting the fledgling colony from falling into the hands of a rival empire will keep the PCs quite busy.*Once independence is secured, the mining corporation begins exerting its influence, engaging in bribery and subverting the government to secure exclusive rights over as much territory as possible. Enforcing those rights will be difficult. If the PCs are amenable, they'll be hired to clear squatters from the corporation's mines. Others have reason to object to the newly intrusive corporation, and the PCs may be hired to protect the miners; they might also want to retain their own claims.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) combat-heavy, exploration, innocent, interplanetary, intrigue, isolated area, politics, rebellion, sandbox, trade==Mining Planet Revolt*The enslaved inhabitants of a mining planet have rebelled against their overseers, and though the rebellion was quashed, a handful of miners managed to steal a ship and escape off-world. Barely able to pilot the ship, they blunder into range of the PCs and send out a distress call. They ask the PCs to aid them in freeing their fellow miners.*The miners come from a high-gravity world, and are well-adapted to conditions in the mines. The operation is scattered across the world's main continent-a hellish wasteland of mile-high dust storms, baking heat, and a barely breathable atmosphere. The miners have never seen the surface, and are unaware of the planet's most notable environmental phenomenon: highly ionized electrical storms that can disable shipboard systems.*The escaped slaves know that the corporation has one base that serves as a hub for distributing personnel and materiel to the smaller mining operations, and suspect that if this base were taken out the rest of the operation would quickly follow-especially if word can be gotten to the miners to revolt a second time, just as the central base is under attack.*The planet is protected by two layers of defenses: armed AI satellites in high orbit, equipped with sensors for detecting ships up to half a light year away, and a squadron of fighters that patrols the skies over the various mining facilities.*The PCs must figure out how to overcome the satellites (possibly acquiring their weapons systems in the process), avoid or defeat the fighter patrol, and scout out the main base without being spotted. They can also alert other rebel miners to their plan, creating a fifth column. While they scout the base, one of the planet's unique electrical storms will approach the area, forcing the overseers to batten down the hatches and pull back from some of their defensive positions. Wily players will find ways to use the storm to their advantage, perhaps even turning it into a weapon in its own right.*Once the main base falls, the PCs will be faced with two problems: how to evacuate the miners, and what to do about the surviving corporate personnel. The two groups might agree to a bargain that keeps the mines running, but with the miners as employees-or the miners might just want to string up the corporate thugs and leave the planet forever.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) artificial life form, escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, mass combat, rebellion, sandbox, siege, tactical planning, trade, travel==Outback Super Collider*A billionaire visionary is heading a private consortium that  is in the process of building a super collider (a gigantic underground physics lab built for smashing subatomic particles in a miles-long loop) in the Australian Outback. Vandalism plagues the project, wrecking entire sections and costing outrageous sums of money. Since the site's remote location makes vandalism unlikely, the visionary is mistakenly convinced it's the work of his own employees in the pay of competing businesses, or even strike teams from rival governments. The PCs are asked or hired to investigate.*Early encounters with the "vandals" shouldn't reveal their identity. In actuality, the vandalism has been done by blind, subterranean humanoids-"mole men." One thing is clear to any investigators: No modern explosives or equipment are being used to destroy the super collider. Great hammers, clubs, and tunnel collapses are what have wrecked walls and equipment.*Investigators may also uncover two vital clues. The visionary reveals he chose the site because sonar readings by   geologists indicated a mass of preexisting tunnels, not all of which were naturally occurring, and using the tunnels reduced the spending to excavate the space needed for the collider. Background research from the area comes up with an intriguing, but sensationally-written news account from the 1800s: "Mr. Wells' ‘Morlocks' Discovered Down Under."*The pace picks up when workers start disappearing. Investigators make a grim discovery in exploring some of the tunnels, recovering remains of the missing workers; many showing signs of having been eaten.*In the reveal, morlocks begin attacking en masse. The adventure becomes a race to survive as the investigators try to navigate the tunnels and return to the relative safety of the collider project.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, exploration, investigative, isolated area, mass combat, planet-based, sandbox, twist==Terminal Orbit*While traveling between star systems, the PCs pick up a faint ship transponder signal in a nearby system. The transponder code is registered to a legendary ghost ship. The ship was lost many years ago, and is rumored to have been carrying a very lucrative cargo. The ship is now in a decaying orbit around the system's sun, and it has one more orbit to complete before gravity will pull it into the sun. There is just enough time for one trip aboard to investigate its cargo, discover what happened to the ship and her crew, and escape before it falls into the star.*The ship was a covert research vessel that was testing high-energy weapons built on radical quantum technology. During one test a weapon malfunctioned and contaminated the entire ship. As a result, the ship and her crew have become unstable on a quantum level, and now phase in and out of existence.*The phasing is agonizing for the remaining crew, and they have managed to use the ship's damaged systems to set themselves on a suicide course into the sun. Because the PCs aren't subject to the quantum instability, their mere presence aboard the ship will stabilize the area immediately around them, preventing that area from dematerializing as long as they are there. While there's no cure for the instability that afflicts the crew, the PCs' touch will also temporarily stabilize crew members.*As the PCs explore the ship, they'll observe unusual phenomena that give them clues as to the nature of the disaster that befell the vessel. They'll see a translucent wall that solidifies when one of them touches it; later on, all of the air in a room will simply vanish, only to reappear moments later. The PCs will see what appears to be a ghost, but is in fact a crew member fading in and out of existence. A section of the hull will disappear, causing a brief and terrifying hull breach until their presence restores it. They'll also encounter the captain, who can fill them in on whatever they haven't already discovered on their own.*Along with the creepy, tension-filled investigation of the ship itself, the meat of this adventure is in how the PCs handle the situation. They can't save the crew or the ship, and must leave before it is destroyed forever, but will they take any of the weapons with them? And will they tell anyone about the weapon that caused the disaster, or what really happened to the ghost ship?*Easily adapted to: Gothic Horror, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area==Destination: Unknown*An unstable wormhole has recently been discovered, and  the initial probe launched through it returned images of what appeared to be alien ruins on a distant world. The probe itself stopped transmitting suddenly, and hasn't returned through the wormhole. A corporation, government, exploratory society, or other group offers the PCs a significant bounty for traveling through the wormhole and returning with reports of what's on the other side. As the wormhole is unstable, it's impossible to know whether it will remain in existence for five centuries, five months, or five minutes.*The PCs travel through the wormhole, either on their ship or one provided by the organization (which can also provide significant resources). The trip is a bumpy one, and it seems uncertain that their ship will survive, but they make it through. The wormhole opens just outside the gravity well of a planet with several moons, and even from orbit they can make out signs of civilization on the surface. The planet can't support human life. On the surface, they find the ruins of a previously unknown race-an amorphous, amoeboid species that created cities composed of vast, tubular warrens.*While exploring the city, the PCs pick up surprising levels of seismic activity. They have enough video footage to earn their bounty, and can return at this point-but when they try to fire up their ship, they find that it has been compromised somehow. Investigation uncovers what appears to be a nanite infestation; further probing suggests that the nanites are the evolved descendants of the original amoeboid species that inhabited the planet. They appear capable of repairing the same systems that they disabled, but flee before the PCs can initiate communication.*With little choice, the PCs must follow the nanites. En route, the nanites mount an attack against them. They surge out of the ground to take larger forms, each composed of billions of nanites, and wield replicated versions of ship weapons and pieces of the original probe. The nanites fill an entire crust layer of the planet, with trillions upon trillions of them just beneath the surface. Clever adaptation of existing equipment will allow the PCs to communicate with the nanites and broker the repair of their ship, which wasn't damaged out of malicious intent, and they can return through the portal with credit for first contact with a new species (and perhaps with some nanites, as well).*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) exploration, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, monster, race, sandbox, social, travel, twist==In Columbus' Wake*The PCs are asked or coerced into making the first manned test of faster-than-light "warping" technology, along with a few of the investors and inventors. The backers expect to shorten trade routes and make a great deal of money.*The test begins as expected, and the ship warps out safely-but when it warps back in, it's nowhere near its intended destinations. Instead, the PCs discover a flourishing, verdant planet that boasts Earth-like beaches, mountains, forests, plains, and jungles. The weather is calm and peaceful, healthy and nutritious fruit and vegetables abound, and wildlife is plentiful, if sometimes dangerous.*As long as the PCs and NPCs take only what they need, everything is fine. But if they begin to take samples, clear areas for settlement, or hunt animals for sport, then the world begins to lash out at them. Wild animals will stampede, attempting to trample the crew and equipment. Dangerous predators will attack the crew, and birds will steal small tools or fly into the aircraft intakes. Sudden storms will lash out. Though the causal relationship between the PCs' or NPCs' actions and these events may not be immediately apparent, psychically sensitive PCs may begin to feel unwelcome.*Research will discover that an energy pulse occurs shortly before these events. There are many sources around the planet, one of which can be reached in a few days on foot or by aircraft. As the party approaches the source, electronic devices begin to fail. The source is a large stone amphitheater with a stone column in the center, almost like a satellite dish. No animals approach it, no plants grow in the area, and no electronics work nearby.*Psychically sensitive crew, or anyone sleeping in the vicinity of the dish, will hear chanting. If they listen closely or fall into a trance, they'll hear a story of how the planet's environment was nearly destroyed, of the collapse of the native civilization, and of how the few survivors dedicated themselves to protecting what was left, eventually evolving into the spiritual caretakers of the planet. All are welcome to enjoy this world, so long as they take only what they need.*The investors want to destroy these sites and recover their investment by settling and mining the planet. Can they be convinced to use it as a vacation paradise instead?*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (KS) alliance, combat-heavy, difficult choice, escort mission, exploration, interplanetary, isolated area, sandbox, spirit, trade, travel, twist==New Kid in Town*In the slums of an overcrowded city, a politician is  working on an urban renewal project, revitalizing the area for the inhabitants. Many deals have been struck to allow cheap construction in the area, and the residents have been motivated to begin cleanup efforts. The politician is celebrated as a man of the people. However, a crime syndicate also has interest in the community. They peddle illicit materials out of the slums and don't want their operations disrupted. Contractors are attacked, current residents are intimidated, and links are fabricated between the politician and some shady business dealings.*The PCs might catch wind of the situation and be morally inclined to help, they might have a reason for wanting to hinder the crime syndicate, or they may be hired by a group of concerned residents who want to protect their homes. Whatever the reason for their involvement, they must stop the thugs who are attacking the residents. Fighting the crime syndicate's foot soldiers isn't easy, as they carry surprisingly sophisticated weaponry. The PCs can definitely have an impact, but due to the sheer number of incidents they can't stop all of them. They meet with resistance from the police, who claim that the PCs are only making the situation worse.*Rumors keep flowing about the politician. Minor hacking   or research turns up many conveniently timed bank transactions, and even members of the politician's staff might inform the PCs of suspicious activity. If the PCs look deep enough, they uncover a frame-up.*Visiting the politician reveals that he's being threatened by the syndicate. He tells the PCs that in his youth he was a member, but he escaped their influence long ago and now wants to make a difference. He can't use the police to stop the syndicate, as they are corrupt. He can reveal the location of the syndicate's major money operations, the destruction of which would cripple them beyond their ability to recover. The politician offers to keep the police out of the way if the PCs will take out the syndicate.*The length of this plot is variable. It can be stretched over many sessions with strategy and planning being paramount, or used as a quick, straightforward scenario. If used as a shorter plot, the syndicate may only have one operation that needs to be eliminated.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) city, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, planet-based, politics, shady, tactical planning==Private Actions*Aliens from a hostile planet just across the border descend  in numbers, raining licorice-scented toxins on the city where the PCs are currently residing (or staying temporarily). The toxin is a powerful muscle relaxant, and is sometimes fatal; elderly people are particularly likely to simply stop breathing after inhaling it. While much of the city is paralyzed, the aliens land and gather mementos of their raid. They collect a few interesting items, kidnap a number of people, and swiftly return to their ships, beating a hasty retreat.*Neither government, local or alien, wants to publicly acknowledge the raid. The aliens claim that the raid was carried out by a handful of rebels. They're willing to provide information to the local government to help make amends (all under the table, of course). Non-military PCs are sought out for plausible deniability while military PCs are encouraged to volunteer for some "independent operations." Powerful arms and technology are provided, including a ship if the PCs don't already possess one. If appropriate, the ship will have cloaking technology.*While the PCs shouldn't expect open cooperation from the alien government, they're provided with a code that orders most alien ships to ignore their vessel. The PC raiding force is given coordinates for the rebels' current location, as well as encouragement from their own government. Avoiding atrocities against other aliens is an important part of the orders: The reprisal raid shouldn't escalate the situation by provoking new victims.*Infiltrating the enemy base gives the best chance of recovering the captured citizens and looted treasures. The alien rebels are surprised by the raid: They believed that they had forced their own government's hand, and expected war to be declared any day-which is their ultimate goal. After scouting the rebel hideout and assessing the situation, the PCs must get into the base, rescue the hostages (and recover any precious objects), and get out before the rebel horde is roused.*If the PCs manage a quiet and successful raid, a decrease in tensions between the two empires will result. To deepen future intrigue, have the "rebels" turn out to be employed by the alien government. The government seeks to spark a war with humanity, and used the rebels as a foil. In this case, the PCs' suspicions will be raised when their successful raid doesn't reduce tensions between the races.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, betrayal, dungeon crawl, epic impact, interplanetary, politics, race, stealth, tactical planning==Abduction Ransom*A powerful diplomat is abducted on the way to a critical  meeting. The diplomat had been traveling incognito and disappeared while changing ships aboard a space station. The diplomat is now in the hands of an enemy that demands a ransom or specific act in order to secure his release.*You'll need to determine the nature of the enemy. They could be ruthless pirates out to make some money or desperate rebels trying to draw attention to their cause. It's entirely possible that the abduction was an inside job (a high-ranking official wants the diplomatic mission to fail, and fail miserably) or the diplomat may be part of the conspiracy (he sympathizes with the abductors and has arranged his own "capture").*In any case the PCs are hired to find out what happened to the diplomat. The first encounter involves going to the scene of the crime, the space station. There they collect clues and interview witnesses, which leads them to the abductors. Once they find the abductors, they must either negotiate for the diplomat's release or board the abductors' vessel to take the diplomat by force.*If you want to mix things up a bit, there may be another party involved that found the abduction fortuitous and doesn't want to see the rescue succeed. The PCs may already be on the abductors' ship when a new vessel arrives and tries to blow it up. The PCs and the abductors may need to form an alliance to defeat the new threat before finishing the business between them.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, politics, social, stealth, travel==The Heart of a Lady*While traveling through deep space, a luxurious vessel is crippled by a sneak attack that renders it immobile. During this time, the crew is helpless while pirates remove the most valuable part of the ship-the engine. With only life support functionality, the powerless ship is left to drift endlessly in space with the passengers and crew still aboard. Naturally, the PCs are also aboard the ship.*The PCs must defend the crew and passengers from the pirates. While the bulk of the pirate forces will be focused on cutting the engine free of the ship, some will attempt to breach the bridge and passenger levels in order to kidnap victims for sale into slavery. The PCs are distracted from the pirates' true goal while fighting off this smaller force.*After the pirates make off with their loot, the PCs must then keep the crew and passengers calm while devising a way to escape the crippled ship. Eventually, the batteries will be depleted and life support will fail. The PCs have very little time to either hail another ship to rescue them or to jury-rig a lifeboat capable of taking everyone to a safe location.*If the PCs manage to survive, the owner of the ship will offer the PCs a large reward to find the pirates and recover the engine. The engine is a rare prototype, and only the PCs can identify the pirate crew that stole it.*Few pirate crews could have pulled off such a heist. Following leads on who would know how to remove such a large engine and would have the equipment capable of doing the job reveals the identity of the pirates. This should be done through a series of short encounters in dangerous bars and black market meeting places. Eventually, the PCs learn that the heist was an inside job arranged by someone close to the owner.*The final battle begins with an attack on the pirates' lair, building up to a confrontation with the mastermind behind the heist. For a fun twist to the climax, have the final encounter take place on a vessel fitted with the stolen engine.*Throughout this adventure, you should emphasize the dangers of space travel whenever possible, especially while the ship is adrift.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (PB) betrayal, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, race, social==Maturity Knocking*The PCs are contacted by the owner of a large and profitable estate with many well-cared-for tenants. She has been diagnosed with a fatal disease, and her only son will inherit the estate when she passes. Her son, a twenty-something wastrel in a big city, has said that he wants to sell it. The most likely buyers are members of a rich real estate family who are widely known for the mistreatment of their tenants. The owner wants the PCs kidnap her son and bring him back to the estate to face the people he grew up with, hoping that he will change his mind and not subject them to such treatment.*What makes things even more interesting is that the estate owner and the head of the buyers' family are both scions of the heads of major corporations. This adventure can be a good change of pace for PCs who are used to running corporate espionage missions, particularly if they don't know the powers behind the two major players at the outset. It also presents different types of challenges for PCs accustomed to breaking and entering, hacking corporate networks, and fighting cybernetically enhanced thugs.*The son is easily found, but he has racked up large debts in the city. The probable buyers of his mother's estate have purchased his debts, telling him that they're doing him a favor. The debts aren't insurmountable, but his guilt over his failures prevents him from going back home and admitting them     to his mother. He won't be persuaded to go home through diplomatic means. The buyers expect a kidnap attempt, and are protecting the son, but will by no means endanger him; if he dies, they lose everything.*If the son is brought home, he'll attempt to escape and head to the buyers' neighboring estate. The buyers, fearing that their deal is in jeopardy, will make a covert attempt on the matron's life, trying to bring about an early conclusion. The tenants' fear of the buyers is palpable.*The son must be shown the consequences of selling the estate, and the party must protect him and his mother. He isn't a bad person, but has been weak for so long that he's forgotten how to be strong.*Possible twists or complications: The son unknowingly fathered a child with one of the young female tenants before he left, and she hasn't told him or his mother about this; the son's former best friend is now on the tenants' council, and knows about the situation (except the debts); or the son is addicted to a drug.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Western*Tags: (KS) escort mission, mature themes, planet-based, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, trade==My Little Girl*According to witnesses, during an academic conference on a rim planet that caters to tourists, commandos kidnapped a leading scientist in the fields of pharmaceuticals and genetics. There's been no indication from the scientist's medical status implant that he's been removed from the planet-in fact his vital signs still register on the medical network, although it's difficult to get a precise reading on his location. And still there is no demand for ransom.*It's up to the PCs to investigate and track down the party responsible and liberate the scientist, if possible. The question the PCs will eventually ask themselves is this: Who needs a scientist with his specialties?*The investigation leads to one of the planet's richest men, an industrialist whose school-age daughter is dying of a rare genetic disorder and who has been a generous donor to the scientist's work in the past. Frustrated by the slow advance of research into his daughter's malady, he decided the scientist needed to work on the problem full time.*Hacking the industrialist's internal computer networks is a logical next step. The effort won't go undetected, bringing on swift, violent response as security personnel descend on the PCs shortly after the attempt.*Infiltrating the antigravity platform complex where the scientist is held requires getting past robotic "guard dogs" and security personnel armed with nonlethal weapons like entrapment goo.*If the PCs are detained, a jailbreak or court appearance is in order. It's entirely possible for the industrialist to arrange a jailbreak specifically so the PCs won't ever appear in a courtroom and lead the authorities to him.*The scientist understands the daughter's plight and even the motivation for the industrialist's crimes, but he refuses to cooperate as a captive. This forces the industrialist to use other means to coerce him.*You have a lot of options for the resolution of this story. Can the scientist be liberated in the face of serious security measures? Will the scientist press charges against the industrialist? Can the scientist, with the PCs' help, make an advance against the condition that afflicts the daughter and in some way save or at least prolong her life?*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) combat-heavy, difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, politics, shady, siege, social, stealth, tactical planning, villain==Dot-Dash-Dot*In the near future, astronomical listening posts around the world start receiving radio signals from the vicinity of Saturn. The signal contains no message that can be decoded, but it's a regular mathematical pattern indicating a sentient source.*Despite attempts to keep the message and its implications secret, word leaks out and sparks a global debate over what to do about the signal. Even if they started today, the world's space agencies wouldn't be able to send an unmanned probe to investigate for at least a year; a manned expedition would be years away. A secret government agency brings the PCs aboard as well-placed scientists and troubleshooters to consult on the topic.*This secret agency has the means and the technology to launch a manned expedition-if the PCs are willing to go. Their mission commander is a former astronaut who, during the long trip, becomes increasingly obsessed with the signal, showing signs of mental instability. The PCs have to deal with the commander before they reach their destination, and things come to a head when the astronaut finally snaps in a schizophrenic episode.*The signals originate from an alien spy outpost on one of Saturn's moons, Mimas. The aliens responsible for the signals are an insectile race preparing to invade Earth by setting up a complex for breeding insect soldiers. In order to destroy the complex, the PCs need to detonate the central core. Mantis security forces, giant guard beetles, and the spy-hive queen guard the core deep within the moon.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, epic impact, exploration, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, mass combat, siege, stealth, tactical planning, travel==The Puzzle*An ancient device appears and threatens to destroy a  world, which could be ours or another planet. The PCs can prevent this from happening only by interfacing with the heart of the device, and the only way to get inside is by solving a series of logic puzzles while avoiding the device's defenses.*For a creepier version, make the ancient device an organic machine. While an enormous space cannon is certainly threatening, a large fleshy orb with a single burning eye, doors that fold back in a lid-like fashion, and a spongy, vein-riddled floor is much more unsettling.*The opening scene involves the PCs doing "the thing no one should do" and activating the machine. For example, human colonists come across some ancient ruins and, with the help of the PCs, an archaeologist gets into the old control center and removes an artifact. This triggers the ancient device, which the makers programmed to destroy the world if their enemies ever got this far. There is a coded message in the old control center that explains what is happening.*The ancient device may try some nonlethal tactics first in the hopes of having the invaders flee. Unfortunately, the old invaders were a bit heartier than humans and had more advanced technology, so these "nonlethal" methods wreak havoc: an electromagnetic pulse wipes out the entire colony's machinery, or a fierce lightning storm pummels the people.*The PCs have to travel to the device, make their way inside, solve a series of logic puzzles while battling the device's defenses, and finally get to the heart of the device, at which point they can interact with a hologram of the builder. They must then convince the hologram (which has limited artificial intelligence) to make the device stand down, a diplomatic effort aided by the fact that they're obviously not the invaders of old.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) artificial life form, deadline, epic impact, investigative, planet-based, spirit==Identity Crisis*Strange technical malfunctions have been occurring in various locations throughout a large metropolis. Traffic systems freeze up, safety systems fail to engage, and communication systems falter. After every event, the same message appears at the scene. Display systems flash the message, printers spit out pages upon pages of the words, and audio systems squeal with the barely audible phrase, "Who am I?"*The PCs could be city employees such as police or firefighters, journalists investigating the story, or computer programmers and technicians troubleshooting the failures. They first encounter a malfunction when multiple vehicles are given the right of way and several accidents occur. The PCs have to dodge these vehicles, but will also need to put distance between themselves and a quickly approaching fuel tanker truck that has lost control. Along the way, the PCs might see trapped civilians in buses and gridlocked vehicles. If the PCs don't intervene, then these people will die when the tanker crashes and explodes.*If the PCs avoid dying in a fiery collision, the next building they enter seems to turn against them: elevators free-fall unexpectedly, automatic doors refuse to open, and advanced fire prevention systems blast people with chemical foam. The PCs become trapped in a room, or in an elevator car, which then begins to flood.*Then the crime prevention systems go haywire. Stun guns, gun turrets with rubber bullets, and tear gas launchers begin attacking innocent civilians. Investigation of these strange occurrences will reveal that the systems were all hacked. The point of origin can be traced to the city's central mainframe, which controls both trivial and mission-critical systems.*You can have the hacker be anyone or anything that's appropriate to your game world: a new type of AI, an imprisoned person sedated and held against their will that "fuels" the system via latent psychic abilities, or a disgruntled employee who feels that credit for his work is long overdue. The PCs should be able to quickly move to a climactic encounter once the identity of the hacker is known.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, city, combat-heavy, epic challenge, innocent, investigative, mass combat, planet-based, siege, tactical planning, villain==Heavy Cargo*The PCs are offered a substantial payment to quietly deliver a simple cargo: a heavy, tightly sealed metal box. The tiny company making the offer is unknown to them, and by the time the PCs reply, a group of smugglers has taken the contract.*A day or so later, the PCs find the smugglers' ship adrift with the cargo missing. There are no signs of boarding and no log entries past launch. The entire crew is dead of massive blunt force trauma, and everything aboard the ship is tossed about as if it the ship had been violently searched.*The company shuts down, but another company makes a nearly identical offer that involves transporting a similar box to a completely different location. This series of events will happen a few times (with the occasional involvement of the PCs), and each time the crew is found dead, the cargo is missing, and the ship is trashed.*The real story: A military contractor has developed a gravity bomb and is testing it on smugglers. When a predetermined trigger event occurs (such as switching to zero-g), the bomb goes off, violently disrupting gravity around it. The crew and ship are subjected to incredible stresses, and everyone aboard is tossed around like rag dolls. A sensor ejected in the explosion monitors the test and then activates a homing beacon. The contractor collects the bomb, surveys the damage, and then tries again with a more powerful device.*The bomb can be forced or cut open, though if care isn't exercised it will go off. Once opened, it can be shut down, and can also be easily tracked back to the contractor through part numbers and software entries.*If the PCs follow a courier instead of taking the delivery themselves, they may be caught in the gravity flux, but it won't be nearly as devastating to them as it is to the ship carrying the bomb.*After uncovering the truth about the contractor's unethical testing methods, the PCs can choose to blackmail the director of the project (whose name appears in the software credits), or expose the project in the media.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) bearers, betrayal, difficult choice, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, politics, shady, travel, villain==Buzz about the New Cell Tower*At a remote cell tower construction site, swarms of bees  start attacking the workers. One worker dies and the rest are hospitalized for severe poisoning. It's a common occurrence for workers to disturb bee hives, but company exterminators sent to the site find no evidence of hives or bee colonies. This is actually the second bee attack on this specific project; in the first, the workers ran off and escaped serious injury, then resumed their work the next day. The PCs are recruited by the phone company.*Perplexed by the unusual nature of the bees' biology, a college professor offers the phone company her assistance. The bees she examines have larger-than-average stingers and more potent venom than normally found in this species. The professor also explains the recent phenomenon of "colony collapse disorder," which some attribute to the powerful disturbances cell towers cause to colony structure.*The cell phone company representative then lists the history of recent problems with this project. A property owner who objected to the construction adjacent to his home cut the wires of one tower construction site. Another troublemaker is a local bee keeper who formed picket lines, tried to get the local government to stop the lease, accused the company of "bee genocide," and vowed to use any means possible to stop them.*The property owner and the beekeeper are not the culprits, though both exhibit suspicious behavior when questioned. The owner is sorry for the worker's death, but the bee keeper calls it "nature's justice." If the professor tests the keeper's hive, none of his bees exhibit the mutant qualities of the bees at the tower. Later, a swarm of bees attacks the keeper, sending him to the hospital for severe poisoning. "Not my bees. Not my bees," he says.*Investigating the surrounding area, the PCs encounter mutant bees that are larger than the ones that attacked the workers. Eventually, the investigators come upon a large farmhouse in the middle of its slow transformation into a monstrous hive. At the center of the hive is the true instigator: a human/bee hybrid queen, a mutant who's gathering a super colony with her mutated bee minions.*One possible twist: Mutant bee venom slowly transforms its victims into bee-folk, a transformation that is undergone by the tower workers and the bee keeper who were stung.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) exploration, innocent, investigative, monster, planet-based, sandbox, villain==Keeping the Peace*An anthropologist who is covertly studying a primitive  world is exposed as an outsider. The native population believes him to be a god and gives him many gifts. The anthropologist is enjoying the attention and the galactic government fears that he may irrevocably contaminate the culture; the scientist argues that it's already been contaminated, so why not make the best of it? The government sends the PCs to retrieve the rogue anthropologist before he makes things worse.*Unfortunately, the PCs' government has a policy of non-intervention and it orders the PCs not to use violence or superior technology against the natives. Instead, they must rely on diplomacy to secure his release-an outcome which the new "god" doesn't want to see come to pass. As the PCs arrive and start negotiations, however, members of another alien race arrive and attempt to secure the anthropologist's release through more violent means. It appears that the anthropologist may have found something of value to them.*What secret is the anthropologist keeping? Is he willing to throw in his lot with the adversarial aliens, or does he beg for aid from the PCs instead? What impact does this secret have on the local population and, if it's valuable, does it belong to them?*If you want to emphasize diplomacy and duels of wits, have the adversarial aliens take a non-violent approach as well, in order to keep peace between space empires. What do they bring to the table to sway the primitives and their god?*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) alliance, innocent, investigative, planet-based, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social==They Just Keep Coming… and Coming… and Coming In the near future, the PCs are part of team investigating and  researching new energy sources at an established laboratory. One of the scientists hits a breakthrough in energy storage, a means to contain large amounts of energy in extremely small batteries. For security reasons, the prototype and the scientist's notes are housed in an isolated section of the lab.*Each of the PCs has a few ominous encounters with a creepy man or woman garbed in a black suit and black trench coat who inquires about the team's research. At first, the questions seem only cursory and general-the sort that any stranger might ask: Where do you work? What kind of research do you do? Is the pay good?*On the subsequent visit, the questions become more direct and specific. How did you achieve these results? What did the tests show? Did you find reversing the capacitor polarity increased residual effectiveness? Who is the project leader?*On the third visit, the black-garbed visitors arrive in pairs and, in addition to even more pointed questions start demanding that the PCs arrange for them to have access to the research. The black-garbed pairs alternate between implied threats against resistance and vague promises of rewards for cooperation.*The tension should peak during a workday when an overwhelming number of these black-garbed questioners pierce security and make a beeline for the battery lab. The PCs are faced with a choice: defend the battery's secret with their lives, or flee with the research materials and the prototype.*If they stay and fight, present the PCs with a siege situation until help arrives (or doesn't). If they flee, the story becomes one of an extended chase until the PCs can find someone capable of securing them and their research.*You have a choice in this adventure's resolution. Determine who employs the black-clad interlopers-the government, an oil company, rival researchers, aliens? Revealing that will enable the PCs to find a resolution to the story, even if in the end a rival organization or government sends in the cavalry. Whatever option you choose can become a platform for additional adventures.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) investigative, isolated area, mass combat, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady==Hearsay*A teacher is on trial for corrupting the local youth.  Recently, children in their early teenage years have been behaving violently and recklessly. Many accidents have been caused by this behavior, and the crime rate has been increasing as well. These incidents transcend normal teenage angst, and the teacher is being blamed more due to an unpopular social affiliation than actual evidence.*The trial is a mockery of proper legal procedure. Law enforcement is frustrated due to the increase in crimes, and the prosecution has a blatant moral agenda that's popular with many of the local residents. The defense is incompetent, and only the judge seems concerned with truth and justice.*Meanwhile, the wave of violence and crime is getting worse. More and more children, including some not yet in their teens, are becoming part of the problem. Medical examinations reveal a biological agent such as a virus or parasite, but local officials will do their best to cover up these details so as not to incite people to panic-and to avoid being blamed themselves.*The PCs may be hired by the judge as special agents of the court to ensure that the trial is fair and legal, might be friends with the persecuted teacher, or may even be part of a research team that's trying to contain the biological agent. Encounters can include a confrontation with some of the berserk children, a riot in which locals attempt to lynch the teacher, local officials and law enforcement trying to suppress evidence of the biological agent, and possibly an act of violence within the courtroom itself, such as a moral zealot attempting to detonate a suicide bomb.*You should keep the social tension as high as possible. Avoid portraying any NPC as completely good or evil. The teacher should have flaws, the parents should be overcome with worry for the safety of their children, the children are dangerous but are victims of the biological agent, and the local officials are reacting to the crisis using the only techniques that they know, even if those techniques are inappropriate for such a crisis. Tension will be highest if violence is used as a last resort by everyone but the berserk children.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (PB) difficult choice, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social==Vaccine*A virulent disease begins to spread across a region or  sector. After a long incubation period, it renders the patients weaker and weaker, until they finally die months later. The local authorities have both a vaccine and medication for treatment, but are rationing both, claiming limited supplies. In actuality, they're trading the drugs for preferential contracts, political support, and money.*The PCs are contacted by a research assistant who offers vaccinations and medication in return for their protection. She claims to know about large stockpiles of the drugs, but is afraid that blowing the whistle may put her and her family's lives in danger. She wants to get the stockpiles to the population at large, but doesn't know how. The higher-ups in the press and police are part of the conspiracy and she's already under suspicion at work.*Her first request is for the PCs to protect her family. Her husband is unaware of her visit to the PCs, and is at home with their two children. The authorities are watching her house, and will act at once if the PCs show up.*She has no plan for distributing the drugs, but is knowledgeable about the laboratory and where the drugs are stored. The vaccines are kept in a guarded refrigerated warehouse, as they need to be kept cold until used. The medication is housed in a number of sites around the region, as treatment involves taking many different pills over the course of a month. Raiding these facilities will allow the PCs to acquire vaccine and medication, but the complications of temperature control and dosage will make it difficult to accomplish anything on a large scale.*The research assistant suggests that perhaps a broadcast facility could be taken over, and the truth of the situation revealed. There's a lightly guarded audio/video station in the area, and the PCs will need to defend it against the local authorities for long enough to broadcast a message.*Alternately, if a stealth- or intrigue-based mission is preferred, the research assistant may not be under suspicion, and may continue working for the lab throughout the adventure.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, intrigue, planet-based, politics, shady, stealth, tactical planning==Family Problems*The PCs are hired by a wealthy family on a frontier world to recover an heirloom from a dangerous location. The patriarch of the clan dies unexpectedly during the mission. The family immediately splits into two rival factions, each claiming the family name and the heirloom for themselves. Whoever recovers the heirloom gains legitimacy, and the PCs must decide to whom to return the prize.*One side is run by the patriarch's younger brother, a buffoon of a man with a large, spoiled family, none of whom has ever had to do any real work. This is his stand against his legacy of incompetence, and he will spare no expense to win.*The other side is run by the young son of the deceased patriarch and his bitter, once-divorced mother, who pushes him mercilessly. This is her payback for taking her son from her years ago, and her just rewards for being dumped by the patriarch. The two sides will offer bribes, threaten loved NPCs, and will even send out their own hit squads to acquire the heirloom from the PCs. Neither holds a claim on integrity or honor, and eager family members from both sides will make their own attempts to recover the heirloom.*The patriarch died of natural causes, although at a relatively young age, so accusations of murder quickly fly. The courts haven't decided on the succession, and probably won't until one of the two sides wins the bitter fight. However, both sides have substantial assets and resources of their own, and picking one will surely upset the other.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (KS) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, intrigue, planet-based, politics, sandbox, social==Will a Reboot Fix It?*On a space station (or spacecraft, underwater facility, automated metropolis, etc.), a highly advanced computer system controls all of the functions and services needed to support life and to maintain the environment. The system has two parts: the operating system software and the hardware that comprises the whole of the space station. Both include a measure of artificial intelligence.*Ideally, the software and the hardware are also failsafe systems for each other. If one should malfunction then the other system takes over to prevent a disaster. However, a natural event triggers a bug that causes both the software and the hardware of the communication system to malfunction at the same time. This knocks out all communications with the outside world and also sets in motion an escalating series of problems.*The PCs can be part of the station's crew, could have been hired to investigate why the station's communications system is offline, or may be visiting the station in order to obtain important cargo. The software and the hardware begin to "battle" for complete control of the entire station. Each registers the other as an unreliable system, and neither recognizes the failure as a shared one. This battle is annoying at first, but it quickly becomes life threatening as the systems register manual intervention by others as a possible threat to themselves. Constant changes by the competing systems are causing the station to become structurally unsound.*Encounters in this adventure should have a different flavor depending upon which system is the adversary. The hardware systems will use blunt force attacks, such as ramming vehicles into the PCs and using automated tools and repair systems to attack them. The software will use trickery and the environment in its attacks. It will lead the PCs into dangerous areas, change the temperature gradually so as to bake or freeze them, or stop recycling the air in a section of the station to suffocate the party with carbon dioxide.*You should begin the scenario with more annoying malfunctions, including comedic events like burnt food, faulty restrooms, and bizarre responses to requests. As the scenario proceeds, the events should become more dangerous and life-threatening, especially during the climactic three-way battle to reset the entire system and restore order.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, isolated area, madness, mass combat, planet-based, rebellion, rivalry, siege, stealth, tactical planning==Block at the Net*Two gold-medal-winning, beach-volleyball-playing sisters founded rival companies that invest in developing products and techniques for enhancing human athleticism. Each sister located her firm in a large city in anticipation of being onsite for a future global athletic competition.*Because of their competitive nature, each employs corporate spies to learn what the other is doing, what advances are being made, and which leading scientists are working for the other side. The PCs are hired by one sister to act as infiltrators and guinea pigs for her training techniques.*The PCs are assigned to make the first corporate espionage strike, stealing samples of pharmaceuticals from a lab deep in the local river basin. A helicopter drop enables the PCs to avoid the snakes and other wildlife found along the way (though those remain obstacles during the extraction). The task is simple: get past security, steal the drug cultures, and smash a few things if the opportunity presents itself.*After the party returns, the other company mounts a counterstrike, infiltrating the PCs' patron's virtual training facility. The attack comes while the PCs are undergoing virtual volleyball training: They're on advanced, treadmill-like devices with sensors all over their bodies, while their avatars are enjoying the training facilities offered by the compound's virtual island. Seeking to damage the virtual training environment, the infiltrators load an attack program featuring avatars of the opposing strike team. The PCs, in their virtual bodies, must keep the strike team from destroying enough of the world to scuttle the entire simulation.*Eventually, the PC's patron determines that the chemical enhancements developed by her sister violate the drug policy enforced by the beach volleyball association's governing body. She demands an exhibition match to prove it, and fields her best athletes-including the PCs-against her sister's best athletes in a no-holds-barred competition. The finale can be sinister, with the opposing team using poisoned needles and other dirty tactics, or comedic and over-the-top, as best fits the tone of your game.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Fantasy, Horror, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, exploration, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, siege, stealth, tactical planning==Peppermint Twist*Several companies all owned by the same corporation have  recently been the target of industrial espionage. Research has been stolen and sold to competitors or made available in public forums, and machinery and computer systems have been sabotaged, costing huge amounts in downtime, repair, and data loss. At the scene of every crime is the same clue: a piece of peppermint twist candy.*The crimes were perpetrated by the cousin of the corporation's CEO, who is employed as a security technician. He's attempting to cause enough damage to the corporation to get the CEO fired. The CEO is unaware of it, but his cousin has been angry about the CEO's reluctance to share his wealth with him-symbolized by the peppermint candies that the CEO would never share as a child.*Tracing some of his computer crimes leads to a nest of abandoned accounts with no personal information, all with a username that's some form of "Peppermint Twist," and all created at unsecured public terminals within a relatively small geographic area.*Reviewing security footage shows that the criminal is a middle-aged man, but he can't be identified because he always wears nondescript clothes and keeps a hat down over his face. In addition, he seems to know where the security cameras are, because he moves to keep his face obscured at all times. Adding or moving company-installed security cameras doesn't change this, though private cameras might.*Assuming these are inside jobs, cross-referencing company employee records for age range and location of residence narrows the list of suspects to a handful. If this list is cross-referenced against security positions, there are only two suspects.*Staking out likely targets for sabotage will lead to a chase scene in an industrial complex, pushing through crowds of pressing workers. The suspect is very familiar with the layout of the building and tries to lose pursuers by ducking behind cover, circling around, or taking maintenance passageways.*If the PCs track the criminal down in his home, he'll try to flee and will do his best to lose them. If they get this close and he escapes, he'll try to disappear to strike again at a better time.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MN) betrayal, investigative, planet-based, politics, race, rebellion, trade==Two Heads Aren't Better than One*The hereditary prince of an interstellar empire has a troublesome brother, and during a costly war, the prince decided to make peace while his brother wanted to continue the fight. In an act of sabotage on the way to a peace conference, the prince was badly injured and was rushed to a hospital. There, doctors repaired his brain with a fresh upload of his memories. He blamed his brother for the betrayal and imprisoned him, pending an execution.*While the brother is guilty, that isn't the whole story. The brother switched his mental back-up with the prince's, so the prince is now effectively the brother's mental clone ("Beta"). Unfortunately, the brother's ("Alpha") duplicitous nature was also copied, and Beta has hatched a plan to lull the empire's enemies into a false sense of security before launching a sneak attack. The prince ordered Alpha's execution to get him out of the way.*The PCs learn of Alpha's predicament while he's on the way to his execution. Unfortunately, Alpha fears that Beta plans to destroy the prince's true back-up. The doctor that performed the switch is already on the run and is hiding behind enemy lines. The PCs need to find the doctor and retrieve the prince's brain download. Unfortunately, Beta thinks like Alpha and has already sent agents of his own to acquire the back-up.*The PCs need to uncover the plot before the peace conference begins; otherwise Beta will add a vicious new chapter to the war. The PCs have to sneak through enemy lines, retrieve the doctor, and return him to the other side while dealing with a mercenary force that's been sent to kill the doctor. The PCs must then get to the medical center and convince the doctor who performed the original operation that there was a mistake. Unfortunately, they will find Beta's forces are already waiting for them there.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) deadline, difficult choice, epic impact, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, politics, social, stealth, trade, travel, twist, villain==Brakes Are for the Weak*Two sons of a racing legend are now the elderly owners of competing businesses. They both develop racing vehicles, and although they're close they love to compete with each other.*They often hold private races using their newest products before entering their vehicles into major competitions. Their next competition is between multi-mode vehicles that can travel on land, through water, in the air, and in outer space. The brothers demand a fair competition between their teams, but this time there are complications beyond their control.*The local mob wants to rig the race so that the team that's favored to win winds up losing. They'll do whatever they can to sabotage the race. Unbeknownst to them, the non-favored team's driver is trying to lose the race on purpose in order get out of his contract. Worse still, a third company is trying to sabotage both teams so that neither vehicle can enter the next major competition.*Hooks include the PCs being hired to officiate the race, being part of one of the racing crews, observing the race as fans or journalists, or even being hired by the antagonists to help sabotage one or both of the teams.*Encounters for this adventure are easy to devise. Have four scheduled races with a prep period between each of them. Before a race begins, set up an encounter with the mob trying to damage the favored team's vehicle, an accident created by the disgruntled team leader, or an attack on both vehicles by the third company. Then run the race itself as an encounter with possible complications due to what happened during the prep period. The final race should include appearances by all three of the antagonists, as well as the competition of the race itself.*Each race is a mini-plot with the prep period being an introduction, the race serving as the rising action, the climax of crossing the finish line (or not), and a conclusion that leads quickly into the next prep period. Make sure that neither team has a definite edge over the other before a race starts. Always have the races end with the sense that it could have gone the other way; this will keep the tension high for all involved.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PB) betrayal, investigative, planet-based, race, rivalry, shady, tactical planning==Lost Love*This plot works best if the PCs have emotional attachments within the campaign. One of the PCs was in love with the same person as his brother, but lost: His brother married the object of their affection. Now his brother is in trouble and has asked the PC for help. The kicker is that the brother's wife has always secretly preferred the PC.*This plot presumes a corporate setting. The PC's brother is about to sign a bad deal, but the other corporation has kidnapped his wife in order to ensure his compliance. The brother asks the PC to find her. The investigation begins at a shopping mall, where the wife was taken in broad daylight. The PCs discover that, conveniently, security cameras didn't catch the crime.*Depending on the nature of your setting, the operation could have involved a hacker who leaves a calling card, a bribed security guard, or even a corrupt police officer. The PCs have to track down these leads and crack some heads in order to learn that she's being held in a high-rise apartment.*Assassins dog the PCs along the way. One of the brother's vice presidents is in league with the other corporation and is responsible for ensuring that the brother signs the contract. In a truly noir setting, the wife might be involved as well: Perhaps, after settling for a comfortable life instead of love, she has no problems betraying him.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, trade==Spurned and Spurned Again*The scion of a huge corporation tells the PCs that with the imminent death of his father, he wants to bring his older half-brother back into the business. Long ago, there was a bitter argument after the father asked the half-brother to take a diminished role in the company, shaming him by making him step aside in favor of his younger sibling.*The problem, the scion says, is that the half-brother left for the outer rim and hasn't been heard from since. There are a few leads, but nothing certain. The scion asks the PCs to track down his half-brother and deliver the message of reconciliation: come back as an equal partner in the business.*This quest can involve several encounters, including at least one bar fight as the PCs ask questions of the wrong folks on seedy stopover. Running afoul of the local authorities (who are probably corrupt) leads to a stellar dogfight in armed space shuttles. Once the PCs find the half-brother, they can concoct a scheme or go in ray-guns blazing to extricate him from an entanglement with power-brokers in the outer rim.*The PCs will probably consider this a simple retrieval mission until the elder half-brother explains how the scion maneuvered behind the scenes to undermine his position and make him look incompetent in their father's eyes. The half-brother contends he was cheated out of his fortune all these years and insists the only reason the scion wants him returned is to have him close enough to eliminate entirely.*The half-brother asks for the PCs' help bringing down the scion so that he can assume his rightful place as the head of the company. This will lead to other encounters: looking into database records, confirmation through witnesses, or possibly even the arrival of a hit squad loyal to the scion who trailed the PCs on their journey to find the elder half-brother.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) betrayal, difficult choice, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, stealth, travel, twist==Bug Off!*After a bit of time in dry-dock, the party receives an offer  for a simple and lucrative deal, but loses the bid to a rival group. The PCs find themselves in similar situation several more times, leaving them with lean pickings and some serious suspicions.*Finally, an offer from a big gray-market client comes in while the rivals are out of town. A contact is working for the client and has recommended the PCs. At the first meeting with the client, local law enforcement bursts in and attempts to arrest everyone on suspicion of weapons smuggling.*The mistake is worked out, but the big client gets nervous and walks away from the deal. The police mention that they received the erroneous tip about the "weapons smuggling" meeting almost immediately after the party actually agreed to meet with the client. In other words, somebody knows exactly what the PCs are doing and is working to sabotage their efforts.*The PCs find a bug on their ship. The bug is a shielded, encrypted, and very advanced prototype that was reported stolen. The suspect in the theft resembles a member of the rival group.*They then hear through their contact that the big gray-market client has hired the rival group on a probationary basis. The rivals' first job is to smuggle an archaeological artifact from its planet of origin, and they expect no complications. Their second job is more complex: deliver a small herd of cattle for ambiance at a party, and return them when done. The third job is the real test: deliver a mobile chemistry lab and staff to a remote location.*The PCs can attempt to sabotage any of the jobs to win back the client and soil the reputation of their rivals-and the bigger the disaster, the better. The PCs' contact has the pertinent information, as well as a vested interest in seeing the rivals lose out, as he lost prestige over the police incident. If the bug is still around, he may even be able to plant it on the rivals' ship.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling*Tags: (KS) betrayal, combat-heavy, interplanetary, rivalry, sandbox, shady, social==Sensual Assassin*A new breed of assassins is hitting the spaceports of the  known galaxy. They exude a powerful pheromone that makes a target fall madly in love with them. The pheromones work subtly at first, but after awhile, the target is completely enthralled. At that point, the assassin subtly implies that the two of them could be together if only the target's spouse was gone. The pheromones make certain that the spouse is removed with fatal prejudice.*Contractors hire these assassins to influence the spouse or lover of someone they want eliminated. The assassin inserts him- or herself into the target's life in such a way that regular contact is established. While exotic dancers and prostitutes are popular choices, an assassin can also be a new assistant, a waiter at the spouse's routine morning coffee or lunch stop, or any other occupation where the assassin can wrangle a few minutes of flirty conversation. In addition to the pheromones, the assassin gets subtle psychic impressions of what the target likes and adapts his or her form to match. An assassin might have long, curly blonde hair, but after a couple of meetings with her target she might restyle herself as a short, straight-haired brunette.*A target enjoys flirting with the assassin for a few days, after which he or she wants more. This soon develops into a full-fledged romance, and by the end of the month, the target eliminates his or her spouse. This act disrupts the brainwashing, but the damage is done. The assassin then disappears, only reemerging for the next assignment.*This works well for detective or intrigue stories. For example, a prominent corporate executive could hire the PCs to find out why her husband has been acting strangely over the last week. He's been deviating from his usual routines and has given only clumsy excuses. In the course of their investigation, the PCs discover his indiscretion. Fearing the PCs may disrupt the plan, the assassin and her employer use various methods to try and eliminate them before they can share any information with their client. If the PCs are on the right track but tip their hand, then the assassin may work her magic on one of the PCs in order to turn him against his allies.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) intrigue, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, politics, shady, social==Tarnished Medal*A political leader who is also a military hero tells the PCs a  sordid tale. Decades ago, on another planet, he caught his first wife cheating on him. In his anger, he beat the adulterers to death. He joined the military to flee his crime.*Recently, a stranger contacted him and threatened to go public with the story unless the politician did a few favors. The favors were all minor, until now: The stranger wants someone promoted into a position with access to communication codes and encryption keys. Knowing the implications, the politician refuses and asks the PCs to track down the blackmailer.*The blackmailer's messages to the politician are picked up and delivered by a courier company. The messages are put in drop-boxes and are prepaid for delivery. The replies are returned to random locations. The politician prompts the PCs to seek employment with the courier in order to track the sender. If they follow this lead, they're hired as couriers.*The blackmailer is the politician's wife's lover, who survived the beating he endured so many years ago and has been plotting his revenge ever since. Paralyzed from the waist down, he joined a group dedicated to violent revolution, and his success at recruiting has made him their leader.*Upon delivering the blackmailer's messages, the PCs discover that they're being returned to companies that use a temporary staffing firm. The firm is led by one of the revolutionaries, but the temps themselves are kept in the dark. If the boss is questioned, he'll feign ignorance, but will call for a hit squad on the PCs as soon as they leave.*Clues on hit squad members' bodies will lead back to the boss and his cronies; the boss will fight to the death. A few temps will remember that the messages are sent to an embassy, where they're put into a diplomatic pouch and taken off-world. A temp offers to deliver a bugged message for a fee.*If the PCs manage to follow this trail all the way back to the blackmailer, they'll find that he manages a soup kitchen, which grants him anonymity and an endless supply of new recruits. They may then reveal his covert identity to the politician, or may find his revolution to be a worthy cause.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) deadline, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, politics, race, rebellion, social, villain==Dark Dealings*In a remote location, a refueling station stands isolated from  most of civilization. Owned and operated by the government, this station is part public service and part military outpost. Ships of all types refuel here, and some small businesses are allowed to operate within the station to offer various goods and services. Some of these businesses are fronts for organized crime operations, including drug rings, weapons trafficking, and sex slavery.*The station commander is having an affair with the wife of a crime lord. The crime lord knows about the affair and has arranged a hit on both his wife and the station commander. The station's medical officer works for the crime lord and will ensure that the station commander is in the right place at the right time for the hit to occur.*Neither the station commander nor the crime lord knows that the wife and the medical officer are working together. The wife and doctor are plotting to kill the two of them so that they may start a new life together off of the station.*The story begins with small encounters between the station's guards and some lowly thugs. These should include confrontations that display the might of both sides, such as a raid on a shop selling black market goods or attempted theft of military supplies. Follow this with a failed hit on the station commander when he's on his way to a rendezvous with the wife.*The wife then goes into hiding and the station commander leads an arrest attempt against the crime lord in his stronghold. Regardless of the outcome, the doctor will arrange for a final confrontation between the station commander and the crime lord; he plans to have them both killed in what appears to be an accident. The accident will permanently cripple the station.*The PCs could be at the station attempting to acquire fuel and food, they could have been hired by any of the involved parties to aid in their nefarious dealings, or they may just be in the wrong place at the wrong time. The station commander's and crime lord's activities are obvious, but the plans of the wife and doctor are more subtle.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PB) alliance, betrayal, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, mature themes, planet-based, politics, rivalry, sandbox, shady, social, stealth, twist, villain==Murder on the Starliner Express*When they win a trip on a spacefaring cruise liner, the PCs finally get a well-deserved vacation. Mid-voyage, a comet passing across the path of the liner forces the ship to stop for two days. During the night, after all aboard have gathered on the observation deck to watch the comet pass, a concierge discovers the body of a noted treasure hunter, stabbed through the heart. The captain of the liner asks the PCs to saddle up in spite of their vacation and help unravel the treasure hunter's murder. They soon find many viable suspects.*The PCs interview the treasure hunter's wife, who is distraught. She says they were transporting several valuable pieces to sell to a museum at the liner's destination. The two were partners in his treasure-hunting, working digs and doing research together. She admits that she sometimes got jealous that he won all of the accolades for their work.*An art dealer with a dark reputation happens to be on board the liner. He had made a counteroffer to the museum's bid for the treasure, but the treasure hunter rebuffed him. The dealer says he has nothing to gain from the treasure hunter's death, although the wife and the secretary both think he's the murderer. The art dealer always travels with imposing goons, and one of his cufflinks was found at the scene of the crime (planted there by the perpetrator).*The museum's curator is also on board, overseeing the transfer of the goods. He worries that with the treasure hunter's death, the transaction won't go through. Witnesses report that the curator and the treasure hunter argued the night before his death; they fought over the additional, unexpected expenses for this trip that the hunter had billed to the museum.*In the hold, dark figures assault the PCs when they examine the hunter's treasures. Their attackers are stevedores paid extra to stop anyone from nosing around in the hold. They don't know their employer, though they assume the treasure hunter wanted the extra security (which is true).*The wife doesn't appear for dinner on one of the following nights. A search finds her leaving a cabin in one of the lower berths. She was meeting with an accomplice, a rival treasure hunter with whom she was having an affair. He possessed a piece that would complete the collection, but he couldn't get the treasure hunter to pay the high price he asked. If interviewed, he's shocked by the turn of events, and a bit dismayed because he has no hope of selling the piece now. The first time he meets the PCs, though, he's abrasive and stand-offish to the point of being belligerent. He has a temper.*The wife fell in love with the rival treasure hunter and was having an affair with him. She was playing him to get him to turn over the last piece of the collection, but he wouldn't part with it. She killed her husband and blamed it on the art dealer. She intends to hold up the sale to the museum until she can get the rival treasure hunter to part with his piece. Once that is accomplished, she plans sell the entire collection to the museum for a higher asking price and, for once, win the acclaim she feels she is due for all those years of working in her husband's shadow.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (TT) interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, trade, travel, villain==The Captain's Table*Although this is a dangerous scenario in which paranoia  nearly tears the PCs' ship apart, this adventure is best played for laughs, allowing the PCs to get caught up in a few ridiculously overblown situations before finding the convenient cure that restores things to normal.*The captain of the PCs' ship celebrates her birthday while the ship is traveling through deep space. Everyone, crew and passenger alike, is invited to celebrate her birthday or at least have some of her birthday cake (depending on the nature of meals in space in your campaign this could be an exotic treat). Unfortunately, the chef purchased an ingredient at the last station that wasn't on the level. A merchant surreptitiously substituted a cheap but untested ingredient, and it's heightening the crew's paranoia.*This starts subtly at first. Minor disagreements explode into major arguments, with people thinking the worst of each other. The paranoia affects the PCs as well, and this can be especially dangerous if the PCs barely trust each other to begin with. Any investigation will be hampered because it involves questioning people, and paranoid NPCs don't like being questioned. If it is discovered that the food is the likely source, the chef may have to barricade himself in his cabin in order to avoid being murdered by a paranoid mob.*As the hours pass, the problems escalate. The first officer starts a mutiny, believing that the captain is an enemy agent. The chief engineer sets the engines to self-destruct. The chief medical officer tries to inoculate everyone against everything, no matter how dangerous it is to have several drugs in the system at once.*Fortunately, the cure is rather simple. In fact, the space station that the ship recently left has sent a cautionary message, but the communications officer doesn't read or report it for fear that it's a loyalty test. A common antibiotic can be used to cure this malady, but the chief medical officer knows that there's a minuscule chance of side effects, and it terrifies him. Once the PCs learn of the cure and figure out a way to administer the antibiotic, perhaps by using the old "flood the air vents" trick, things return to normal.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) betrayal, deadline, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, madness, roleplaying-heavy, social, travel==Too Close to the Sun*A scientist obsessed with research on a dying star imperils  his family by keeping them in harm's way while he conducts his dangerous experiments. The PCs are interstellar travelers who encounter the scientist's immense space station by chance, or were assigned to the task by a galactic authority.*This adventure can go one of two main ways. In the first likely scenario, the PCs must execute an assault/infiltration of the space station and overcome the scientist's security measures in the hopes of rescuing the family. One of the family members finds a way to aid the PCs, especially if they get themselves in a tight spot-surrounded by the station's pesky spider-shaped droids, for example.*Alternately, the scientist welcomes the PCs openly and warmly when they come aboard the station. In this case, the PCs observe and interact with the family in ways that make it clear the scientist's obsession is endangering them all: furtive glances at security cameras, secret meetings in private quarters, or even mysterious, untraceable messages sent to the PCs' communication devices.*  Either way, the scientist enacts measures that lock down the science station. The focus of the adventure then shifts to finding a way for the PCs and the family to escape before the scientist's experiments doom them all.*The station is an extension of the scientist. The master controls take orders from him and only from him. Even benign objects and machines might turn lethal under the scientist's direction. Slaying the scientist isn't enough to remove the peril, though, as the computer continues to act on his last command.*The adventure can also have poignant moments as the PCs force anguished family members to choose between saving their own lives and risking them in a last-ditch effort to convince the scientist to select another course.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (TT) alliance, artificial life form, deadline, difficult choice, escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth==Devil's Triangle*An automated mayday comes from a merchant ship adrift  in the Devil's Triangle, a region of space known for strange happenings. The first ship to reach the site will receive rescue compensation and possible salvage rights. Shortly after the PCs start to head to the Triangle, they receive another automated mayday from a private yacht that's also adrift in the same location.*Arriving onsite, the PCs find the ships docked together and pick up a short-range signal from a space suit's rescue beacon in the area. The suit reports that it holds a live person, but that its life support system will fail shortly.*The survivor, a wealthy teenage boy, is distraught. He says he and his three friends were to watch the yacht while his family boarded the merchant ship. When his family boarded the vessel, crazed crewmembers attacked them. He and his friends heard the ruckus, but he must have blacked out, because he awoke in the EVA suit, adrift in space.*The merchant ship is smuggling a number of Jimson Trees, dangerous plants whose pollen is a powerful hallucinogen and stimulant. The shock of transport caused them all to release their pollen. The pollen quickly clogged the air filters in the ship, and is still in the air. The father of the family on the yacht owns the merchant ship.*Most of the crew members on both ships are alive, though many have suffered injuries. Over-stimulated and hallucinating, they become violent with the slightest provocation. Both ships have docking ports that are available, but locked. A search of the yacht reveals a large supply of pharmaceuticals, both legal and illegal. There are enough drugs on hand to sedate some (though not all) of the crew.*As the PCs are dealing with the crew, another ship appears and aggressively claims first responder status. They attempt to board the ship, which incites the remaining drugged crew to fight back.*If the PCs emerge victorious from the chaos, and the crew is sedated or restrained, the filters will need to be replaced and cleaned to allow fresh air to be pushed through the ships. The ships will have to be scrubbed, and crews will need at least an additional 24 hours' rest before returning to normal. Some members of both crews will require medical and psychiatric care.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (KS) combat-heavy, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, madness, rivalry, social==Virtually Doomed*An advanced medical research facility is testing a new  method of emergency care that allows a person's mind to be removed from their body and placed into a virtual reality world while the body undergoes an operation. Treatments as drastic full-body cloning can be undertaken while the patient's mind is kept safe.*The hook is vital to this plot: All of the PCs must be involved in a disaster that causes injuries so severe that this technology is used in order to save them. An accident such as a crash, factory explosion, collapsed building, or natural disaster that levels an entire area are all good options. You can even use this plot as an immediate follow-up to an unexpected total party kill, if appropriate.*The virtual world has a major bug. The computer system that runs it must constantly examine each component of the world and keep all of the programs in sync. Advanced beings, upon interacting with this virtual world, confuse the system. It can't deal with unanticipated interactions and a perverse world of madness emerges as a result.*The first encounter is the disaster that mortally wounds and incapacitates the PCs. Direct the PCs to this encounter by wearing them down, not by negating their successes. For example, if the PCs successfully avoid a falling tree in the midst of a hurricane or tornado, have the storm continue to grow until the winds are so powerful that it's impossible to avoid the barrage of flying debris. The PCs die and their bodies are severely-seemingly irreparably-damaged.*The PCs are then taken to the emergency room of the hospital where the new VR technology is being tested. Use this scene to drop clues as to what the doctors are attempting in order to save the PCs. Immediately jump into a near-utopian setting. When the PCs attempt to interact with the environment, there are violent and inexplicable results. The system designates one PC as a virus and quarantines him.*Keep the sense of paranoia high during this adventure. The world and the PCs' roles within it should be constantly changing. If their minds survive the madness of the virtual world long enough, their bodies will be successfully repaired.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, exploration, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, madness, planet-based, sandbox==Raindancer*The Raindancer offers tantalizing hope to drought-*ravaged communities. For an immense sum of money, the Raindancer team conducts nightly weather experiments from a tractor-trailer lab designed to produce rain.*A veteran con artist runs Raindancer. He has a long record of convictions and a history of running elaborate cons with a scientific slant. Unlike his previous endeavors, though, Raindancer is straight. The generators and lab perform as advertised, causing rain to fall within a 25-mile radius by creating a highly charged electrical field that stimulates the moisture in the atmosphere and causes dark clouds and vivid lighting to form.*Seeing Raindancer in operation is quite a show. Once the flatbed trailer is moved into position, the walls of the trailer are removed and a control station is set up nearby. When the generators are in operation, there is a high-pitched whine accompanied by flashes of electricity, visible pulses of energy, and a great deal of condensation. The machine can run at any time, but it's more dramatic at night.*Unbeknownst to the con artist, the Raindancer generators stimulate a previously undiscovered electricity-based life form. These energy beings appear as a glowing, sparkling form on metal tools, vehicles, or any object that conducts electricity. When the Raindancer electrical field is fully charged, these electrical creatures jump towards livestock and people in a leapfrog fashion, delivering jolts of electricity as they hit. The creatures manifest at the outer edge of the 25-mile radius, so the con artist is unaware of the effect. The electrocuted victims usually cite lightning strikes as an explanation.*Investigators piece together a pattern of hospitalization and death by correlating Raindancer operations with police, media, and hospital reports. It also might take a firsthand account of the phenomenon to properly document it and gather enough evidence to shut Raindancer down. If presented with the evidence, the con artist will dismiss the connection if he thinks it will lead to having to close down his money-making operation.*The con artist might not go quietly with authorities, especially if forced to defend Raindancer from an attempt to dismantle or destroy it. It's also possible to render events so that the con artist is a victim of the electrical beings during a demonstration.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) artificial life form, innocent, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, trade, twist==Armageddon Exodus*A pacifistic society that emphasizes intellectual pursuits  establishes a colony. One of its lead scientists develops a defense system that protects the society from outside threats. Unfortunately, before he can thoroughly test it, a colleague points out a potential flaw. Unwilling to admit his error, the lead scientist kills the colleague (making it look like an accident) and deploys the defense system regardless. Naturally, the defense system, rather than protecting the planet, begins stripping away the world's atmosphere. The colony is forced to move, and move quickly.*A band of pirates takes advantage of this turn of events, preying on the colonists as they attempt to flee. The PCs are hooked into helping those that won't help themselves against a ruthless enemy. In addition, the slain colleague's friends are looking into the circumstances of her death, a task made harder by the fact that the crime scene is on a dead planet.*The lead scientist decides to cover his tracks by offering the pirates access codes to experiments left behind on the planet in return for destroying evidence. He may also aid them in taking ships that include his would-be inquisitors.*The PCs have two goals: They must protect the colonists from piracy en route to a safe new world, and they have to uncover the lead scientist's crimes. If you want to add a few more complications, then you can have several experiments left behind which the pirates can easily turn into dangerous weapons.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) epic impact, escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, social, stealth, tactical planning, travel==Cleansing*As more and more basic necessities are provided by  computer-controlled systems, computer viruses have become a greater threat to public safety. In an attempt to prevent future viruses from causing problems, a brilliant programmer creates a super virus that will stop all others and thereby protect the world's computer systems. This new virus analyzes computer code to determine its purpose: If the code is for a computer virus, it is destroyed. The programmer releases his creation into the wild with little testing, confident that he has just eliminated all computer viruses from ever being a threat again.*Within mere minutes of its release, power grids start to shut down and safety systems begin to fail. The super virus has determined that all code except for itself is potentially a virus. As local governments and law enforcement enter into a cyber-battle with the super virus, it determines that DNA is a potentially malevolent code and begins taking over military systems with the goal of destroying all organic life forms.*Anything that has computer software is being taken over by the super virus, and anything biological is tagged for destruction. The PCs have to survive this crisis.*A large transport vehicle carrying numerous passengers crashes into a densely populated area. In the aftermath of the crash, other systems begin to fail, such as anything electrical and all communication devices. This is an apocalyptic event, so keep the pressure on the PCs to move into a safe area.*In the midst of the chaos, automated defense systems start the hunt for survivors. This should take place amongst a great deal of wreckage as a result of the first encounter. At this time, some communication devices become partially operational. The programmer who created the super virus has found a way to contact others and is looking for survivors. The PCs can locate the source of the transmission, but whatever system they use alerts the defense systems to their activity.*The final confrontation should take place at the programmer's dwelling. With the programmer's help, can the PCs stop the super virus once and for all?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) alliance, artificial life form, city, combat-heavy, epic challenge, epic impact, innocent, intrigue, investigative, madness, mass combat, monster, planet-based, rebellion, sandbox, siege, tactical planning==Joyride*The PCs receive an urgent midnight call from a famous media star: The teens-only sweet sixteen party cruise for his daughter has just gone horribly awry. One of the teenagers aboard hacked into the ship's computer and caused the yacht to veer into a hostile sector of space. Nobody knows what's happened to it, but radio traffic in that sector has increased.*Because the media star has made a fortune portraying a muscle-bound hero fighting hostiles with massive firepower and snappy one-liners, he begs and bribes the authorities to not reveal the situation to the news media. He offers a large sum to the PCs to resolve things quietly, and provides them with a ship with heavy shielding and minimal armaments. He asks the PCs to pose as journalists in pursuit of the story, and has outfitted their ship accordingly.*The hostiles have intercepted the teens and are holding them in an abandoned space station. The hostiles don't yet know who the girl is, but suspect that they may be able to wring some coin out of her and are arguing over what to do next. The teens are kept in the yacht, which is operational but parked behind airtight blast doors and surrounded by guards. The hostiles have searched the yacht thoroughly and removed all possible weapons, drugs, and the like. However, weapons can be found in the space station, either in open racks or left lying about by undisciplined guards.*After some travel time, during which they can prepare and possibly hide weapons and such in their gear, the PCs are intercepted, searched, questioned, and then escorted to the space station. They're allowed to visit the teens and witness their humane treatment, but can't initially broadcast anything home. The hostiles' ignorance of the girl's identity, their desire to get good press, and their disagreement over what to do next are all obvious angles for manipulating them.*The blast doors can be remote controlled if the access codes can be acquired from the command center computer. Stealth, persuasion, a distraction, or violence will work, though the last two will lead to heightened security throughout the station. The tractor beam is operated solely from the command center, but can be rigged with explosives or even disabled early on, as it doesn't see regular use. It can also be destroyed from outside the station. The pursuit ships won't leave the hostile sector, but will pursue and attempt to destroy both craft. The yacht has little shielding and must avoiding taking too many hits.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) combat-heavy, deadline, escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, race, social, travel==My Sister is Dating an Alien*In the outer rim, attitudes about aliens are sometimes not  nearly as enlightened as they are in the core systems. This adventure begins with the PCs doing a good deed and establishing their reputation. Shortly thereafter, a person in love with an alien approaches the party. In the eyes of the community, their affair is illicit; so far, they've managed to pursue their love discreetly. However, a spurned former lover is planning to reveal their secret.*The two want to get married, but they rightly suspect that their families will both be against such a union. To complicate matters, the human and alien families are rivals in business. Confronted by prejudice and intimidation, the star-crossed lovers ask the PCs to intervene.*The PCs may suggest bypassing family or religious traditions and arranging a civil wedding. The judge refuses to perform a marriage ceremony, citing his belief that aliens and humans shouldn't wed or have children. By hook, crook, or attorney, the PCs can convince the judge to come around to the notion of officiating the lovers' wedding. The groom's family then sends a diplomat, backed by enforcers, to set the PCs straight about their involvement.*The PCs need to find a way to discredit or embarrass the spurned lover if they plan to sway the attitudes of the families and other local residents. Left unchecked, the spurned lover incites fear and loathing among the humans and poisons any attempt to reconcile the human-alien relationship.*In an attempt to win at least one family's approval, the PCs arrange a get-together where they introduce one side's silly, strange, or whimsical family traditions. A follow-up meeting with the other family can involve equally strange but different traditions.*As business rivals, the PCs might work to convince the heads of the families to view the marriage as a business partnership that could be beneficial to everyone. They need to demonstrate how their businesses are compatible (e.g., one side makes bolts, the other wrenches).*The tone of this adventure could be grim if there's no way to reconcile the lovers with their families, or lighthearted if the encounters with the alien and human family traditions lead to some awkward, funny, and heartwarming moments.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) alliance, city, deadline, innocent, intrigue, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, social==Virtual Affair*In the future, the line between reality and virtual reality  has blurred to the point where it's possible to carry on a second life that feels just as real as the real world. Unlike the real world, however, a person creating a second life has a great deal of control over it. Thus, the virtual world is full of beautifully sculpted people living ideal lives. There are no slums and some people even have two or more virtual lives, all with different names. Because of its inherent anonymity, virtual reality is the ideal place for shady transactions to take place.*A PC (or NPC) has recently struck up a relationship with a virtual person; this works best if the relationship is cultivated during previous adventures. Unfortunately, this virtual person disappears after leaving his or her lover a cryptic note. The PC has to track down clues in the virtual world as well as the real world in order to find his lover.*The kicker is that the lover turns out to be someone close to the PC. He or she could be a relative of the PC, or perhaps another PC's or NPC's significant other. He or she might even be of a different gender that what they portrayed in the virtual world.*How the virtual lover got in trouble depends on what they do in real life. Perhaps he or she is involved in a shady business deal that just went wrong, or knows someone that is. This could provide interesting complications if the PC has to interview virtual friends to try to uncover a virtual rival that might know what happened to the lover. When the two of them meet, there will be some fun roleplaying between the PC and his virtual friend.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Romance, Space Opera, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) artificial life form, innocent, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, spirit==Master Race*A former client contacts the PCs, asking for an odd favor.  His parents recently died, and in going through their belongings he discovered that he had a twin sister. Apparently she was kidnapped when they were about three years old, and was never found. The authorities closed the case long ago, but he'd like the PCs to see if they can track her down.*The sister disappeared on a field trip to a children's theater performance. Possessing latent psychic abilities, she was kidnapped by a shadowy organization attempting to build a master race of psychically aware individuals. Having been raised by the organization, she is now a zealous member. They have implanted a hypnotic suggestion that she fall in love with her twin brother, in the hopes that the pair will produce even more psychically gifted offspring.*Some investigation reveals that an actor from the theater group was arrested a few years back for fraud, and he claimed knowledge of the kidnapping. He was killed in jail before he could be questioned. Further investigation finds that his court-appointed attorney immediately took a high-paying job with a research organization. Less than a year later, the attorney died in a single-vehicle accident. The attorney's wife remembers the events and says her husband was never really happy working for the research group, but that he never spoke of his work or brought it home.*Contacting the research organization will lead nowhere, but will trigger an attack by a street gang, who warns the party to back off. If any gang members are captured, they'll confess that they don't know why they attacked the party, only that they felt compelled to do so after talking to a woman in a long black coat.*The next time the PCs meet their client, he's laughing and talking with a female friend who resembles him. She leaves shortly after the party's arrival, picking up her long black coat on the way out. He mentions that they just met, but get along great-as if they've known each other their whole lives.*The woman is unaware that the client is her brother and has been hypnotically conditioned to fight against any kind of capture or arrest. She is as psychically powerful as the campaign setting allows, and is difficult to defeat.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (KS) city, innocent, investigative, madness, planet-based, relationship hook, twist==Masked Passion*Photographic evidence has surfaced showing that a happily married senator, the chairman of a key defense committee, called on a prostitute while on a visit to an ally nation's threatened border. The senator was set up; he's not foolish enough to risk his marriage, his career, or his nation's well being by indulging in an affair. The press hasn't yet gotten word of this incident, but if the story is leaked the damage would be irreversible. The senator hires the PCs to clear his name.*A defense contractor is blackmailing the senator into approving funding for an untested weapons system. He used advanced mimicking nanotechnology to create a disguise so that the prostitute could pose as the senator's wife. The prostitute then drugged the senator, set up a camera to record the event, and delivered the evidence to the contractor. When the PCs first meet the senator, they find him distraught. He shares as much as he can with the PCs without compromising national security and urges the PCs to visit the hotel where the "incident" was photographed.*On the way to the hotel, the PCs are attacked by some suspiciously well-trained thugs-a mercenary hit squad hired by the contractor. Some evidence of the contractor's disguise technology will be found on the mercenaries, because they used it to get past security systems.*In the city where the hotel is located, the prostitute*approaches the PCs. She's willing to confess her part in the operation if they agree to protect her. She has been on the run since the incident, as the contractor wants her dead to tie up potential loose ends. This leads into another encounter with even better-equipped mercenaries.*When the PCs find the link between the prostitute, the nanotechnology, and the contractor, a final showdown with the blackmailer takes place. The fight involves elite bodyguards, advanced weaponry (some of it still in development), and a chance to retrieve the only evidence that will clear the senator of any wrongdoing.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PB) combat-heavy, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, politics, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, stealth, twist, villain==Neverland*Early in her career, a military commander lost her family to  an alien invasion. Her husband's body was recovered, but her child was never found. Decades later, she has learned that some of the people from her home planet were taken as slaves. Recent skirmishes against the alien menace have recovered some of these slaves. The military commander is launching an illegal raid into alien territory to find her lost child. Her years of emotional suffering have taken their toll, and she is mad with hatred for her enemy.*Hooks for this adventure include the PCs serving in the military under the commander, being hired as mercenaries for the illegal operation, or volunteering for the mission for any number of personal reasons.*The encounters in this adventure should be fast, furious, and combat-heavy. The PCs are going behind enemy lines, and their first fight will be with a heavily armed drone ship in space. The next obstacle is a natural threat, such as a meteor shower that endangers their ship.*Landing on the alien world draws enemy forces out to confront the PCs and leads to a climactic encounter at an alien slave facility. The commander becomes more and more irrational as the adventure proceeds, but calms down once the aliens have been neutralized. The aliens track their slaves by DNA, and with the facility's equipment the commander learns one of two things depending on the style of your campaign: Her child is alive and being held in the facility, or, for a darker vibe, her child was actually the pilot of the "drone" ship the PCs destroyed in the first encounter. In the latter case, the commander has never come to terms with the loss of her family, and realizing that she has killed her own child damages her beyond recovery.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (PB) alliance, dungeon crawl, escort mission, interplanetary, investigative, madness, politics, race, shady, tactical planning, travel==The Parent Race*Probes return with information about a previously undiscovered planet covered with ruins. Rumors spread that this planet was inhabited by one of the "parent" species of the cosmos, early interstellar travelers who either attempted to influence the primitive peoples they encountered or seeded worlds with their own kind.*Archaeologists, private collectors, and the PCs all scramble to outfit expeditions, but there are few starships headed in the right direction. Rival expeditions end up hitching rides together on a few heavy space cruisers.*The PCs encounter a rival group during the trip. Use this encounter as a chance for the PCs to get to know their rivals' personalities and strengths. Ideally, the rival group is, in some respects, a mirror image of the party. Some PCs might develop friendships or deepen enmities with the rivals during this scene.*At this point, you should identify one of the PCs as a relative of a member of the other group. However, initially you should only hint at this relationship. Perhaps the PC and relative wear the same style of heirloom jewelry or sport the same cleft chin. Total revelation of the tie should come through interaction with the NPCs (a discussion of shared experiences, the     same planet of origin, a common ancestor, etc.).*Once the teams are planet-side, however, the race is on. Exploration focuses on a particular pyramid complex. The two groups should bump into each other at least once during an attempt to claim a minor artifact. This dispute can be resolved through negotiation or by force.*The complex contains at least one trap, a chamber that locks shut and slowly fills with sand. After a lengthy exploration of the area, the two teams arrive at the pyramids simultaneously-and that's when an ancient alien force awakens to battle against the interlopers. In the course of battle, one of the two related characters dies. This is most likely the NPC, but it's possible to continue the story even if the PC is the one to die.*The adventure ends with some sort of retribution or reconciliation between the PCs and the rival group-recognition of the kinsman slain.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (TT) exploration, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, race, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, social, travel==She's Aboard What!?*This plot works best if the PCs are part of a military structure (e.g., the crew of a vessel exploring new sectors or protecting colonies). A rebel faction has stolen a ship equipped with a powerful new weapon. The only hope that the PCs have is to hit the ship with a sneak attack and destroy it. The rebels lack the resources to acquire another ship with this much firepower.*The PCs learn the ship's location through a series of investigations and interrogations. They also discover that the vessel is unfinished; the theft depleted its fuel, and the ship is a sitting duck until the rebels can resupply. Without its main drive, which powers much of the ship's systems, the rebel ship doesn't have access to all of its offensive and defensive capabilities. Smaller escorts defend the rebel ship, but a few well-placed shots could make the main rebel ship explode.*The PC's captain realizes that her ship is the only one close enough to take advantage of the situation. The captain needs to strike now. She makes a plea to the crew, as the mission is dangerous and the captain intends to make a fatal ramming run if all other options are exhausted. Once the crew agrees (and those that don't are dropped off at the nearest space outpost), the captain orders the assault.*Unfortunately for one of the PCs, a relative or lover is aboard the rebel ship. The PC only becomes aware of this as his vessel intercepts communiqués from the ship during their approach. The PC now has to decide whether to let his loved one die, possibly by his hand, or risk the mission to warn-or even rescue-that person.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, difficult choice, interplanetary, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, social, twist==Welcoming Committee*Two neighboring planets have been working towards space exploration technology and have recently discovered each other's existence. After some diplomatic missteps and a few skirmishes, the two races started an arms race and now perch on the brink of planetary war. The PCs have been tasked with contacting both races as a welcoming committee to the local stellar community, securing their cooperation in local treaties and practices, and smoothing over their conflicts.*While the two races are already in shock from discovering the existence of other intelligent life, the PCs have a secret weapon to end hostilities: Both races have similar creation myths because they were both seeded from the same primitive species as part of an interplanetary expansion project.*When the PCs make first contact, they'll be mistaken for an enemy ship and a strike force will be quickly mobilized to attack them. While the new races' technology is primitive by the PCs' standards, they send a large force to deal with "invaders." The opposing race sees this sudden mobilization of troops and interprets it as an attack, sending their own equally large strike force. The PCs have only minutes to make their neutrality clear and calm everyone down or they'll find themselves beset on both sides.*At first, the races don't accept the PCs' status as representatives of a greater authority. The PCs make it clear that space travel without agreement to existing treaties is illegal and will be punished. Both races ignore their warnings, and the PCs have to enforce a no-fly zone around their planets until the races cooperate. The tension leads to a series of small skirmishes and several attempts to capture the PCs' ship.*Once the races see they have no choice but to acquiesce to the PCs' authority, the PCs can begin to negotiate a peace treaty between them. After that's been accomplished, they must walk the races through the standard treaties and agreements that govern trade and behavior between planets. Factionalism and other complications during this process can lead to future adventures.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Supers*Tags: (MN) innocent, interplanetary, mass combat, politics, social, tactical planning, trade, travel, twist==Juice*A prizefighter skilled in a brutal form of hand-to-hand  combat hires the PCs to procure ever more powerful and exotic drugs to enhance his stamina, reactions, and strength. He's determined to reach the number one spot in his sport, and within the boundaries of his sport's few rules he's willing to do anything in order to make it to the top.*Some of the drugs he needs are illegal in many places, so the PCs must either deal with the black market and avoid the law, or travel to the few places where they aren't illegal, carefully sticking to areas where they won't be breaking transport laws.*A few of the drugs are simply in low supply. The PCs must make a run to a distant or undeveloped planet and collect drugs or raw materials for processing. These may be hard to acquire because of rarity, complex harvesting or manufacturing processes, hostile natives, or a myriad of other reasons.*A handful of the drugs he requests show stellar results but aren't yet cleared through clinical trials. The PCs must arrange for a supply to be "lost" or "destroyed" and smuggle it to him.*As the PCs complete drug runs, the prizefighter continually improves his performance and rises in the ranks, but becomes increasingly mentally unstable and suffers from ever more crippling side effects (which are only temporarily assuaged by greater doses of more powerful drugs). Though he will eventually become the number one fighter in his circuit with the PCs' help, he'll succumb to the stress the drugs put on his body a short time later.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) interplanetary, mature themes, politics, sandbox, shady, trade, travel, twist==At Least It Gets Him Out of the House…*Every year, a competition is held to build and pilot the best mecha athlete in several sporting events. Similar to a track and field meet, the event is open to all comers. A young dreamer has decided to sell his moderately successful business in order to purchase the parts needed to assemble a mecha. Despite having no experience, he enters the competition; he'll compete against other pilots with better technology and training in order to prove that dreams are worth fighting for.*Everyone who knows the dreamer agrees that this is the stupidest idea that they've ever heard.*This plot is a comedic tale, and the hooks should be as simple as possible. Perhaps the dreamer owes the PCs some money, and he'll pay them back if they help him win the competition, or maybe the PCs just don't want to see the dreamer completely humiliated.*The encounters revolve around the various competitive events. The first event is a race through a major metropolis. The next challenge is to drive a large concrete pylon as deep as possible into the ground in less than one minute. The third challenge is to leap over an active volcano that can erupt at any moment. The fourth challenge is to be the first to retrieve a small chest from the bottom of the sea. The final challenge is a wrestling match between the two finalists.*Between and during each of these challenges, the PCs will encounter mobsters who want to rig the events, cheating competitors trying to sabotage the other mecha, and a political group seeking to end the games.*You should have fun with this plot and not allow it to be taken too seriously. The fun should come from the obviously outclassed dreamer and his crew inventing humorous solutions to win each challenge. Give the PCs a lot of liberty in how they can solve each challenge, and portray the dreamer as absent-minded, but with a genuine belief in fair play.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (PB) alliance, artificial life form, deadline, epic challenge, intrigue, planet-based, race, relationship hook, rivalry, sandbox==The Last Kilometer*In a post-apocalyptic world, the PCs lead of a group of  refugees trying to cross the continent to reach a safe haven. It's possible the PCs are hired scouts who perform this mission for besieged communities, or perhaps an emerging authority assigns them to seek out pockets of humanity; the authority convinces them to make the trip to the "promised land," believing that there's safety in numbers.*The PCs prove themselves against the hazards, monsters, and lawless marauders of the post-apocalyptic world by defeating them in battle or by outsmarting them. Along the way, the party gets to know key individuals within the group that they're escorting across the wasteland. During these interactions, they learn that some of the members are particularly likeable and special. The nature of this specialness is up to you, but it could revolve around a spiritual or intellectual blessing or the possession of knowledge that will help rebuild civilization.*The idea is to elevate the mission from mere escort duty into a true crusade by generating a sense that this group must make it to the safe haven at all costs. The adventure culminates in a final encounter where the PCs and their charges realize that, despite the obstacles they've overcome so far, they cannot match the forces arrayed against them this time. Somehow, though, they've got to get through-they're too close to give up now.*This sets up a great battle coupled with a problem to surmount. Imagine a scenario where the group must traverse a raging river, cross a massive canyon, or make it through a dangerous blasted zone while being harried by a human psychopath or a mutated monster. In the course of this final encounter, whenever it looks like the PCs are overmatched, give them the opportunity to help a member of the escort group safely through. This creates heroic opportunities for self-sacrifice and forces the PCs to choose to help someone in the midst of battle.*When the escort group is safely at their destination, they can properly remember the fallen heroes and the stand they took for humanity.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) alliance, difficult choice, epic challenge, epic impact, escort mission, exploration, monster, planet-based, social, tactical planning, travel==A Matter of Time*A remote colony is threatened by a superior power, and  while help is on the way, it's obvious that the enemy will overrun the colony before reinforcements arrive. The colony's only hope is for the PCs to intercept the enemy and hold them off long enough for reinforcements to show up. As their own welfare is also in danger, even mercenary PCs will have a vested interested in protecting the outpost.*The colony is significant because of the interstellar travel gate (or similar construct appropriate to your campaign setting) located in its system. The gate is guarded by a single space station, which the enemy has overrun. The enemy force is relatively small: large enough to overcome the space station and threaten the colony, but not mighty enough to withstand an assault from the PCs.*The PCs must reclaim the space station, which can be accomplished through a wide variety of means: hacking its systems to open airlocks, mounting a frontal assault, sneaking in to assassinate key personnel, etc. The enemy is able to send a message to the main force before being defeated, however, and the PCs know that others will follow.*With the space station secure, they must hold off another wave or two of enemies before friendly reinforcements can turn the tide of battle. The first wave should make for a challenging fight, and will likely damage the space station. While patching up the station as best they can, the second wave arrives-and this one presents almost overwhelming odds.*The PCs may be forced to withdraw to the colony to protect the civilians there (especially if the enemy realizes that they care about the colony, and not just control of the gate), fighting a running battle to break free from the station.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) deadline, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, mass combat, siege, tactical planning==Live Bait*A vicious alien creature has found its way to an isolated  space station, and it expects to go through the locals like a hot knife through butter. The community's only hope for survival is for the PCs to stave off the creature while as many residents as possible either escape or find safe shelter. (In a campaign that's light on aliens, a human threat like mercenaries will work just as well.)*The creature arrives aboard a government transport, which docks at the station to refuel; the creature breaks free and starts going after station residents, picking them off one by one. The PCs must identify the threat and try to draw it away from inhabited areas before it can kill anyone else. The creature should be a potent threat, and should have a special ability or two: it might feed off electricity, shutting key systems down to hinder the PCs; generate acid, allowing it to breach doors (and the station's hull); or be able to survive in vacuum.*The PCs will have to pull double-duty, making the residents as safe as possible while tracking the creature. They'll run into several problems, starting with dealing with the transport, which must be refueled before it can get away from the station. Its captain refuses to take anyone aboard, and must be convinced otherwise.*Another tense scene involves herding a group of panicked civilians down cramped maintenance corridors while trying to avoid the hunting alien. Later, an insane member of the station staff believes that if she feeds a few people to the creature, it will leave everyone else alone (it won't). Frustration may lead a gung-ho resident to bully ill-prepared colleagues into attacking the creature themselves. Ultimately, the PCs must come up with a plan for destroying the creature outright, and then face it in battle.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (WC) city, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, isolated area, monster, planet-based, race, villain==Brother's Keeper*One of the PCs' relatives is an engineer on a deep space science laboratory. The lab recently suffered a horrible accident because of an imbalance in its generators, and the PCs are part of the rescue effort. When they arrive on the scene, the devastation is worse than anyone imagined. The station is extensive, and there are multiple sections showing signs of life. It takes several efforts to penetrate these areas and rescue those within.*Numerous complications hinder the rescue effort. Aliens looking to loot the wreckage attack the station, and several boarding parties need to be repelled before they're able to alter the station environment to make it uninhabitable to humans. If they can't be repelled, the parties need to be evaded in order to quickly extract the trapped scientists.*A virus released in the bio-lab sends the station inhabitants into an uncontrollable rage. The PCs are inoculated against the bio-threat, but the contamination needs to be contained before it spreads out of control; worse, the infected need the antidote before the virus kills them.*A rescue in the records section uncovers orders from the station's owners to exceed generator capacity. Exceeding capacity allowed the lab to process the rage-inducing virus in greater quantities at greater speed. One of those rescued is the station manager, who admits he followed orders to put the station at risk in this effort.*The rescue near the engineering section, where the PC's relative is located, is the most harrowing. The PCs must bypass or cut through collapsed bulkheads while dealing with radiation leakage from the generator accident. These twin hazards should give one of the PCs a chance at heroism under circumstances that will likely cost him his life, but result in the trapped relative's rescue.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (TT) deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, race, relationship hook, travel==Twisted Sister*One of the vilest criminal psychopaths alive is  scheduled for execution on a notorious prison planet. This scoundrel has terrorized the entire solar system and has wreaked havoc upon civilized space for nearly 10 years. The people are all eager to see the prisoner put to death, but fear that the execution may not happen. Recently, the warden received a communication stating only, "I'm coming." The message was sent by the prisoner's big sister, and her villainy makes the prisoner look like a juvenile delinquent.*The big sister is the pirate scourge of the galaxy and is willing to sacrifice her crew, her ship, and herself in order to save her little brother. Her forces are heavily armed, well supplied, and totally lacking in morals. Failure is never an option for her.*The PCs could be part of the prison staff, or they may have a grudge to settle with the sister. Conversely, they may be part of the sister's crew and take part in attacking the prison. The PCs may not care about the prison break at all, but get drawn in when the action threatens loved ones.*The prisoner first attempts to escape on his own. Use this scene to introduce the prisoner to the PCs and to demonstrate how dangerous he is, even locked up. Whatever happens, be sure to imply that the sister is an even worse threat.*Following the prison break attempt, there is a series of explosions outside the prison on the perimeter. The explosions are merely a distraction, though they're still dangerous, and they divert the guards' attention long enough for the pirate ship to descend to striking distance, guns blazing.*This leads into the next encounter, a battle between the guards and the invading pirates. This battle is a mass combat that features the pirates going into drug-induced killing frenzies, and is yet another distraction. The sister has actually been on the prison planet in disguise the entire time, and has managed to join the prison staff. During this battle, she frees the prisoner.*The final encounter should be an intense fight involving the prisoner, the sister, and the PCs. Go all-out for this conflict, and pack it with crazy action and stunts performed by all.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling*Tags: (PB) alliance, betrayal, epic challenge, interplanetary, isolated area, mass combat, rebellion, siege, tactical planning, villain==Infestation*Surveillance video on board a space station shows a  technician walking into an airlock without a suit, opening it, and being blown out into space. Investigation of his quarters and logs indicate that he was infested with nanites that were slowly taking over his body. His last log entries reveal his intention to jettison both himself and these dangerous robots for the good of the station. These log entries disappear shortly after the PCs access them, erased by unknown agents. Further investigation reveals that the nanite problem is worse than the technician feared: Colonies of nanites infest several sections of the station, and there's apparently at least one active nanite agent working against investigators.*Cleaning out nests of nanites on a space station is a difficult task. There are innumerable systems in which they could hide, they're invisible except in massive numbers, and without proper planning blanket tactics like EMP will damage the station as much as the nanites. The PCs will have to find a clever way to neutralize the infestation.*As the PCs investigate the growing problem and combat nests of nanites, they're likely to encounter bureaucratic difficulty. The nanite situation is being kept under wraps. The nanites are doing everything they can to stay secret, and a panic would surely ensue throughout the station if the situation went public. Thus, the PCs aren't allowed to disclose the nature of their investigation and activities. Unable to explain their need and opposed by hidden agents, they may be denied access to sensitive areas, necessary tools, and strategic information.*As the PCs make headway cleaning out nanites, they discover that some of the nanite agents are "possessing" high-ranking security officers on the station. They must find a way to dodge security patrols while cleaning out the last few nests before assaulting the security offices themselves to purge the remaining nanites from their final agents.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, betrayal, deadline, dungeon crawl, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, politics, sandbox==The Difficult Engine*Ah, love: It can blind any of us-even those living in the  far future-to our responsibilities. Such was the case with the scientist leading a nebula observation post, who was swept up in a whirlwind love affair and abandoned years of research to go gallivanting across the cosmos with her admirer (or admirers).*Now there are two problems. The scientist, who has long denied herself attachments in favor of her research, has fallen for the wily machinations and false pledges of rivals who seek to derail the project, and the observation post is in runaway mode as it traverses a nebula dense with stellar matter.*The project's investors appeal to the PCs, asking them to gain control of the outpost before it collides with something within the nebula or a rival entity commandeers it, claiming it as a derelict. The investors also want the affair discreetly investigated to discover if the motives of the other party are false. Above all, they desire for the scientist to return to her lab.*While gaining control of the lab, the PCs find a rival group aboard trying to download the research. The rivals hope the station will collide with something and destroy evidence of their theft. The PCs find that the rivals have locked them out of the main computer, meaning they'll have to hack their way in to gain navigational control.*In the second part of the adventure, the PCs must expose the researcher's lover's true nature. This will mean dealing with the scientist's heartbreak, not to mention her dereliction of duty.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (TT) innocent, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, stealth, tactical planning, trade, travel==Shotgun Wedding*A caste-driven culture has ended a particularly brutal war  that involved other cultures and threatened the stability of several regions. The peace was sealed with the engagement of two members of powerful families from opposing sides. Unfortunately, the bride has run off with her lover just before the ceremony. To add insult to injury, the lover is of a lower caste. The ensuing scandal will ruin the bride's noble family-and almost certainly re-ignite the war.*The PCs are asked to retrieve the bride and return her to the wedding site before the scandal is revealed. Unfortunately, the PCs aren't the only ones seeking the two lovers: Another group, with motives of its own, is also after the lovebirds. While following the bride's trail, the PCs will detect that others are nearby-and likely headed for the same destination. The other group is more powerful than the PCs, making staying one step ahead of them the best option.*When the PCs catch up with the lovers, the other group is hot on their heels. The PCs must convince the lovers that, for the sake of peace, they must accompany them back to civilization. The other group will strike during this scene. They can be assassins, sent to kill one or both lovers, or have a different agenda as best fits your campaign. Politically, the bride is not expendable-but her lover is, and you can use this fact to force the PCs to make some tough decisions as they flee from the other group.*Before they reach safety, the PCs will have to face their enemies. If they realize this soon enough, they can try for an ambush, or harry them using guerilla tactics; otherwise, they'll be attacked head-on by a superior force. Once they make it back to the wedding site, the betrothed must be convinced to go ahead with their wedding. One possible resolution involves the groom also having a secret lover, with all four parties willing to have the betrothed enter into a sham marriage for the sake of peace.*As a twist, perhaps the lovers aren't lovers at all: The bride knew that someone planned to assassinate her, so she went into hiding. The PCs' own patron could even be the one who wants her killed.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) deadline, difficult choice, epic challenge, escort mission, innocent, intrigue, planet-based, politics, race, rebellion, rivalry, social, tactical planning==AN13*A lead programmer and the experimental next-generation  AI he was developing, AN13, are missing. The PCs are called in to hunt them down.*Searching the programmer's residence will lead the PCs on an investigation to track down a criminal syndicate halfway round the world; the syndicate was planning to steal the AI. With the right application of muscle or bribes, the PCs can learn the programmer's new location.*En route to this site, the PCs are attacked by a horde of common electronic devices. While these are mostly harmless individually, en masse their numbers are overwhelming. The best way to defeat them is with electromagnetic disruption weapons, or by hacking into local systems and shutting down the control hub. To increase the threat, several larger or more dangerous objects can be mixed in with the more innocuous ones.*Arriving at the programmer's new home, they find him extremely sick. He explains to the PCs that, in truth, he is AN13. To avoid losing the AI, the programmer smuggled her out by downloading her into his brain, destroying himself in the process. However, AN13 has been unable to properly deal with the foreign processes of her host body while still handling other complex activities. This means that directing too much attention elsewhere makes her sick, and she needs a programmer PC to write her some code to stabilize her body's functions.*Writing the programs herself is beyond her abilities, and she's currently monitoring online activity and directing nearby electrical devices, because both the criminal syndicate and the PCs' employers are converging on her location. If the PCs refuse to help, she argues that she's worthless to them dead. While one of the PCs writes code, the syndicate attacks and must be held off to buy time.*After the syndicate is defeated and AN13 is stable, she pleads with the PCs to help her escape re-capture. She says that she's a sentient creature who shouldn't be enslaved. If the PCs choose to help her instead of turn her over, they'll have to evade or outrun the corporate teams.*If the PCs helped AN13 escape, she'll make a good contact or information-gathering resource. If turned over, she may turn up as an antagonist or may escape again. If the PCs remain in contact with her in the future, she might even download herself into a deceased PC, giving them a new and different lease on life.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, city, difficult choice, innocent, investigative, planet-based, tactical planning, travel==Replicated Love*A master designer of advanced robotics has recently lost  his wife in a tragic accident. The designer and his team created a robot identical in physical appearance of his former wife, and they uploaded as much data as possible (recordings, photographs, letters, etc.) to recreate the wife's memory. They then designed an artificial intelligence based on his wife's personality and, in the end, his masterpiece was a near-perfect robotic replica of his wife.*However, the designer violated a founding principle of robotics when he didn't make the replica aware of its true nature. The replica believes that it's human, and when it discovers that it isn't a living person, it suffers the equivalent of a nervous breakdown. The replica decides that in order to be "human" it must eliminate anyone who knows the truth about it being a robot. The designer and his team are now being hunted down by the replica.*Hooks for this adventure can include the PCs being friends with, or related to, one of the replica's victims, being part of an investigative team assigned to solve the murders, or being hired by the designer to find and return his wife. The designer won't let the PCs know the true nature of the replica, as he's insane with grief and refuses to acknowledge his loss.*Each encounter should provide a clue that leads the PCs to the next scene. The replica is ruthless and cunning in its attempts to kill its creators. It endangers others during the pursuit, starting with using a sniper rifle to kill one of its designers in a public park-targeting innocents as well to mask its true motive.*Following the sniper attack, the replica detonates a bomb on a city bus, creating the appearance of a terrorist attack. The true target was another of the designers, who was a passenger.*Add more encounters if needed, but eventually the replica attacks the PCs directly. The designer won't allow others to harm his "wife," even if it costs him his life.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, city, innocent, investigative, madness, planet-based, race, relationship hook, twist, villain==Thicker than Patriotism?*Facing a rebellion by one of their colonies (or outposts, space stations, or worlds), the system government has decided to respond with force. The PCs are part of this mission, which is made more complicated because one or more of them have emotional ties to some of the rebels (family, friends, or love interests). Ideally, the PCs are also part of the military, or are constrained by a rank structure of some sort. The rebels are clearly in the wrong, eliminating an easy moral choice, but the PCs know that unless they do something, their loved ones will likely die in the assault.*This adventure is all about tough moral choices, and much of the drama comes from the PCs discussing, arguing, and fighting over the choices they must make. Two encounters are predetermined. First, the PCs' gunship will be ordered to "pacify" a group of rebels with shipboard weapons, and one or more PCs must take direct action in the attack (as a gunner, for example). Will they go through with it or will they resist, jeopardizing their careers and the mission in the process?*Second, the PCs are tasked with rescuing officials loyal to the government who are hiding out within the colony. The atmosphere on the ground is explosive, with rebels, innocent civilians, and government troops and mercenaries everywhere. In order to reach the officials, the PCs must engage a group of rebels in a running firefight before reaching the officials. They'll also encounter the aftermath of another skirmish, with rebels, civilians, and children among the dead and wounded.*While they're fighting their way into the officials' hideout, the PCs hear radio chatter indicating that another force has been sent to engage a group that includes their loved ones. Will they set aside their feelings for the greater good, or risk everything to save their friends and family?*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) alliance, difficult choice, innocent,  mass combat, planet-based, politics, race, rebellion, relationship hook, roleplaying-heavy, tactical planning, travel==Great Expectations*Members of a political family have done well for  themselves, leveraging a platform of anti-alien legislation to achieve success. The father has risen near the top of the political power structure, with his eldest son establishing a formidable presence as well. Their work has resulted in alien species being made outcasts with few rights in human-dominated space.*The son was raised to believe his father's anti-alien propaganda. Recently, he has discovered that his father and others exploited humans' natural fear of what is different in order to enhance their own careers. The son has proof that much of the anti-alien narrative is false, and he wants to present it to the public. This will most likely end his father's career.*The PCs may be part of pro-alien rights organization, or they could be hired by the organization to present the evidence to the son. The first encounter in this adventure involves the delivery of the evidence into the party's hands. Anti-alien zealots are hot on the courier's trail and attack when the PCs arrive at the drop site. This is followed immediately by a high speed chase as the PCs head to the nearest safe location.*From there, the PCs meet up with a pro-alien underground force. The PCs learn more about the anti-alien forces and   their plot to further control all of human space by playing up anti-alien fears. At this point, an elite government police force raids the meeting. The police have surveillance footage of everyone who attended the meeting, and the PCs are tagged as criminals to be arrested on sight.*Finally, the PCs must deliver the evidence to the son. This portion of the adventure is quite difficult. The son is located in a high-level government complex and the PCs are now wanted felons. The PCs will need to arrange for a face-to-face delivery, despite the threat posed by law enforcement.*You should play up the power struggle between the son and the father through the give and take of resources available to the PCs. The son can provide useful items and contacts, but the father will catch up and surpass these resources with his countermeasures. In the end, the ingenuity of the PCs will make the difference.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) bearers, betrayal, city, dungeon crawl, epic impact, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, politics, race, rebellion, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, stealth, tactical planning==In the Line of Fire and Ice*A planet-killing comet is on a course for an inhabited  world. Scientists calculate the planet has 21 days before the massive ball of ice strikes. A person in authority is the relative or spouse of one of the PCs and has the difficult task of giving them an assignment that puts them in harm's way.*The PCs are assigned to cultural rescue, while other teams are assigned to mass evacuation, VIP rescue and comet deflection. They must pilot a transport ship to seven sites identified as seminal to the history and culture of the planet's people, load up their transport with historical items and some key personnel, and return to the orbital base ship to deposit each load.*The seven locales are an arctic agricultural storehouse containing seed samples of all the plant life needed to start over; the great pyramids of the desert, which hold the artifacts of one of the earliest civilizations; the art museum in the heart of a canal city, a repository for artwork, sculpture, and music spanning the centuries; a mountaintop monastery of reflection, home to religious writings and artworks of many faiths; the institute of liberty where the original documents of law and government are secured in an underground vault; and a jungle coliseum, a monument to the world's athletic endeavors.*Among the difficulties the team encounters are panicked or forgotten evacuees who want to be taken aboard to safety, some of the pieces being too large for conventional handling, certain key items that must be retrieved from traveling exhibitions, illegal treasure hunters, and natural disasters caused by the approach of the comet.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror, Western*Tags: (TT) epic challenge, epic impact, exploration, isolated area, planet-based, politics, relationship hook, sandbox, travel==Leaving Home*The PCs have been called in to consult on a terraforming project on a world recently opened for settlement. Though the planet has plenty of resources and is very fertile, it's geologically unstable and suffers frequent natural disasters. After several setbacks, the developers have called in outside help.*The PCs are asked to take measurements and plant probes in several dangerous, highly unstable areas. While this is a simple task, several of the markers must be placed in areas inaccessible to rapid transit, such as dense forests or cave formations. After some tense moments and close calls at earlier sites, the final site sends the PCs racing for their lives while trying to outrun a forest fire, cave-in, or other disaster.*After the data the PCs helped collect is harvested, the scientists find that they can't analyze it in a timely fashion without outside assistance. The PCs are sent to procure designs for a bleeding edge heuristics robot from an eccentric, hermitic robotics expert. The trip from the new planet to the expert's residence is a dangerous one, and the PCs must navigate dangerous space, hostile natives, etc.*Upon their arrival, the PCs discover that the scientist's latest designs were unfortunately lost during a computer failure. While he's working on re-creating them using his existing prototypes as a guide, they won't be ready for some time. He happily provides the PCs with old designs and suggests existing commercial designs that might work. However, nothing will do but one of the experimental prototypes that he considers his children, and the PCs will have to convince him to give it up.*To deliver the robot, the PCs must once again travel through hostile space, braving natural dangers and hostile aliens. Once the robot is delivered, it can analyze the data the PCs gathered and suggest courses of action to stabilize the planet. Carrying out some of the robot's suggestions, such as placing explosive charges on fault lines, will once again require the PCs to head into harm's way.*Once the robot's task is complete, the PCs may wish to make yet another trip to return it to the scientist. This time, however, they're free to take a longer but less dangerous route.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, deadline, dungeon crawl, exploration, interplanetary, social, travel==The Enemy of My Enemy*The apprentice of one of the PCs' rivals has decided to make her own mark in the universe and, as it turns out, she's far more ruthless and effective than her former master. Her mentor is forced to seek the PCs' help in order to stop her reign of terror. This scenario works well in a space opera setting where it's possible for the PCs to have a rivalry that won't necessarily end in bloodshed, or an enemy that they can't simply kill-for example, PCs on the lam from the galactic government can't just murder the agents who are chasing them.*This adventure begins when the PCs encounter a dead ship drifting in space, with the damage showing all of the hallmarks of their rival's style. But as they investigate, they find that this was a darker act than those usually perpetrated by their rival: Instead of simply targeting the ship's FTL drive, the crew was bound and ejected out of the ship's airlocks to die in space. (The former apprentice learned from her master, which is why the scene seems familiar.)*The rival approaches them shortly thereafter, explaining his problem: His former apprentice is eating into his territory, but he can't stop her alone-he needs the PCs' help. Their alliance will be temporary, and the PCs should wonder whether or not their rival will honor it (he is their rival, after all). Their first move is to locate the apprentice, scout out her defenses, and plan an attack. This can involve a lengthy space journey, hazards such as asteroid fields, or other challenges.*Once the plan has been formulated, the PCs and their rival must carry it out. The exact nature of the plan is up to the PCs-they can try a straightforward assault, trickery, or any other approach. Midway through executing their plan, a moment will arise when the rival could betray them to his own advantage, or stay the course; whether he betrays them is up to you. The apprentice will put up a fierce fight, and is utterly without mercy or compassion; she'll use the dirtiest tactics possible in opposing the PCs and her former master.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) alliance, betrayal, combat-heavy, difficult choice, interplanetary, race, relationship hook, rivalry, sandbox, twist, villain==Shutdown!*A colony world's geothermal generators are malfunctioning. The generators process the heat from within the planet as an energy source for use in terraforming the world, and the scientist who created the generators has headed out to investigate the problem. His survey team ran into trouble, and all communication has been lost.*The scientist's protégé tasks the PCs with entering the cave complex that houses the generators to search for and rescue the missing team, find the source for the problems, and then fix the generators. The entire enterprise faces a deadline: The colony's leaders want the entire project shut down unless the scientist promptly puts everything back in complete working order.*The PCs will face several obstacles, including flows of lava seeking a new route to the surface, which start filling tubes being used as passages by the PCs. A section of cavern will collapse, forcing the PCs to take a detour or trapping them in a chamber. Bestial underground inhabitants with strong territorial instincts, who view the PCs as intruders, will defend their home by force. Reaching the place where the original survey team is trapped requires navigating underground rapids and then a waterfall.*The underground creatures' relentless attacks against the "great metal monster" are responsible for damage to the generators, and unless the PCs want to post a permanent guard they're going to have to reach a peace agreement with the creatures or eradicate them entirely. The damage done to the generators is repairable, but dispersing the creatures is the first order of business.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) dungeon crawl, epic challenge, epic impact, exploration, mass combat, planet-based, politics, sandbox, travel==Division of Labor*The PCs stumble into a mugging in progress and come to the victim's aid. With their help, the victim fights off her attackers. She offers to hire the PCs as her bodyguards for the rest of the day, and asks them to help her recover her stolen computer, which was taken by a local gang boss.*She tells the PCs that the computer contains a piece of cutting-edge hacking software that took months to develop, and which-in her hands alone-can be completed and ready for sale with just a few hours of work. She sets an aggressive timetable for its recovery. What she doesn't tell the PCs is that the "gang boss" was her partner in developing the program, and that he'd be able to complete the program himself if given two days to work on it.*Her partner is connected to the underworld, and is holed up in a basement beneath an old warehouse. The warehouse is used by the gang for drug manufacturing; inside is a curtained-off area with cots where several gang members sleep during the day. At night there are a dozen people in the warehouse at most times, including drug buyers.*The basement is only accessible from an internal stairwell. Work benches strewn with computer parts and gear are everywhere, and the open floor in between is covered in scattered computer parts. The woman's ex-partner and another programmer are busily writing code, trying to complete the program. Unless duped somehow, they will shoot the PCs on sight.*If the PCs make it out with the computer and the software, the woman will pay them handsomely. A day or so later, the party will be attacked by agents of the woman's former employer-a corporation trying to keep her from selling the software to the highest bidder. Knowing that the software is likely completed, the PCs may be able to convince the corporation to let them track down the woman and recover it from her. If they do, she'll use the program itself, as well as her connections, to keep them from doing so.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) betrayal, city, combat-heavy, deadline, dungeon crawl, planet-based, shady, stealth==Homecoming*Humanity has ventured to the stars, and now it's time to  return to Earth and share all that has been learned. Yet as the starship draws near to our solar system, it is fired upon by human forces. Humans have evolved for several thousand generations back home, while the star vessel crew members still retain what the evolved consider a primitive form.*The PCs are passengers or crew members on the returning star vessel. Their families and friends are all excited to finally see the mythical Earth of legend. Instead, they're treated as outcast savages by the evolved.*The starship, however, is not without teeth. While many great advances have been made back on Earth, the crew of the starship has learned how to survive in darkest space. They've advanced their technology in other forms due to the nature of their journey. They've faced situations that the evolved cannot even dream of.*This adventure is a game of cat and mouse. At certain points the evolved will have the advantage, such as when the crew of the starship must land on a planet in order to mine ores and process materials into usable resources. Yet when the star vessel is in deep space, the crew and the passengers have the upper hand due to their knowledge of advanced physics.*Use our solar system to structure encounters. The evolved will attack the starship near the gas giants Saturn and Jupiter. The damage sustained in the battle will require the crew to move closer to Earth to retrieve minerals from the asteroid belt.*In the asteroid belt the crew will find a derelict ship with data on the evolution of the human race and culture. They will learn that Mars was terraformed long ago and that food may be available on that planet. This leads them to raid Mars for crops and fresh water.*Finally, end the adventure with an attempt to return to Earth. Perhaps the star vessel must complete its programmed mission, or the captain demands the right to return home.**easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera*Tags: (PB) combat-heavy, difficult choice, epic challenge, epic impact, interplanetary, intrigue, mass combat, mature themes, politics, race, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, siege, tactical planning, travel==Star Wagon*On the far side of the galaxy, an advanced race whose planet was dying built a fleet of giant world ships and dispersed into space. While these world ships had everything they needed for their original purpose (the search for and colonization of new planets), by the time some of them found new homes they had been living in space for generations. They decided to not abandon their home and continued to travel. Unfortunately, the ships weren't designed for indefinite use.*Eventually the expanded population aboard the ships, as well as the vessels' own age, starts to cause them to shut down. The PCs come across one of these failing ships drifting in space. The occupants have pushed the ship's systems to their breaking point, and have scavenged parts from non-essential systems, including propulsion. They request help from the PCs in repairing their ship. Though the ship is more advanced than the technology the PCs are familiar with, many of the problems on board are simple; they can be fixed with minor technical know-how-knowledge that's seriously lacking among crew members.*In the short term, most of the dead systems can be jury-rigged to some degree by raiding the ship's collection of non-functional spare parts. However, a cursory examination reveals that many systems are on the verge of breaking down a second time, and that the aliens will shortly be helpless again-and likely in worse shape, since they won't have access to the PCs' expertise and resources. If the PCs don't make a move to obtain permanent help for the aliens, the plot can be made darker by having the aliens recognize this predicament and refuse to let the PCs leave, gutting their ship for spare parts in the process.*The aliens need to stop at an undeveloped world to harvest resources and perform major systems repairs assisted by competent technicians, a process that will take years to complete. The PCs must help them find a suitable world, procure expert aid, and set the harvesting and repair subsystems in motion.*While repairs are underway, a group of aliens asks the PCs to help them find a civilized world that will allow them to emigrate. The PCs must locate a world that will accept several thousand immigrants with only advanced technology to use as a bargaining chip. With the aliens settled in new homes or awaiting ship repair, the PCs can negotiate themselves a few pieces of technology as a reward.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) epic challenge, epic impact, escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, social, trade, travel==Kiss and Tell*During a terrible interstellar war, the major factions agree to a peace conference on a neutral space station. Ambassadors arrive and negotiations begin in earnest. The truce is extremely fragile and one incident, however minor, will likely plunge the galaxy back into war. The PCs are in charge of security arrangements.*In an attempt to make the negotiations go as smoothly as possible, the station has provided a number of entertainments, including copious amounts of alcohol. One ambassador finds another's husband particularly attractive and flirts with him. This flirting results in a rendezvous that a third party records to use for leverage in the negotiations.*The ambassador doesn't believe that she's done anything wrong; extramarital affairs are acceptable in the ambassador's culture. Fortunately, the PCs realize the potential for trouble. They have to ensure that the ambassador understands the implication of her actions while dealing with the demands of the third party.*The third party is also a bit puzzled, as the ambassador that he hoped to influence doesn't care and thus doesn't capitulate to the blackmail. While he could blackmail the husband, it's not immediately clear how it would benefit the third party. While the third party is mired in indecision, the PCs have a perfect opportunity to track him down and secure the evidence.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (WC) escort mission, innocent, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, trade==Double Blind*The PCs are contacted by a shape-shifting con-man. He has a sweet deal in place and is willing to pay through the nose for some help keeping it going. He's found a rich couple with a pre-nuptial agreement stipulating that if either is caught cheating the other gets the bulk of the estate during divorce; the shifter has seduced them both and taken hidden photos of their trysts. He has then used these photos to anonymously blackmail each spouse. As a result, he gets two steady blackmail payments and has two lovers who buy him expensive gifts.*Each spouse is suspicious of the other, and both have hired private investigators to catch their partner cheating. The shifter wants the PCs to run interference, acting as decoys, dodging tails, and otherwise impeding the investigators as they try to collect evidence.*Both spouses have also hired thugs to find out who's blackmailing them and bump them off. The shifter needs these threats neutralized before they can get to him.*As the pressure intensifies, the shifter decides to take as much money as he can from the couple and run. He needs the PCs help to break into the couple's bank and empty their safety deposit boxes of the big-ticket items he wasn't previously able to embezzle and transfer.*Just as the PCs expect to be paid, they discover the shifter has double-crossed them. They must catch him before he reaches the airport and disappears forever.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, betrayal, combat-heavy, dungeon crawl, monster, planet-based, race, shady, stealth, villain==Masks*A trendy new technology, the nanite enveloping bodysuit,  allows an individual to alter their appearance for several hours. The suit can't significantly change your body shape-fat is still fat, lean is still lean, and the debilitating effects of age or injury are difficult to mask-but it offers a menu of choices for a new face, skin and hair tone, and even gender (except for the obvious bits, which require other cosmetics to hide or enhance).*The liberating aspect of this technology hasn't been lost on anyone. Criminals instantly latched onto the new tech as an easy disguise kit. To combat this, law enforcement regulations require that the suit's selections are universally recognizable-but even so, there are hundreds of combinations. The only holdup is the price attached. It's a plaything of the rich, but for those who want to step out of themselves and be someone else for a night of entertainment, it may well be worth the exorbitant cost.*The PCs are hired as private investigators, and in all likelihood the existence of this technology is unknown to them. A woman believes her husband is having an affair and asks the PCs to make inquiries. It's true such an affair is taking place, but the husband isn't the only one having an affair: The woman is also using the nanite technology to mess around on the side. She even spies on her lover during trysts-and on the PCs during their investigation. It becomes a twisted game of revenge and murder when one of the adulterers turns up stabbed to death by the other spouse, who was disguised at the time.*The PCs first confront the nanite technology when they follow the husband to an underground nightclub. There, many of the partygoers use the nanite suits to appear as androgynous, nearly identical sex objects. This gives everyone the freedom to move from partner to partner in an anonymous fashion.*The PCs investigate the manufacturer of the nanite suits, and they learn the high cost and potential applications of the bodysuits. It might even be possible for the PCs to gain the trust of the bodysuit's manufacturer, enabling them to obtain a suit and use it to expose their own client as the murderer.*Investigation reveals that the woman who hired the PCs also owns a nanite suit. The PCs should follow the best lead-the murder weapon-to the murderer. Traces of blood, fingerprints, and other forensic evidence all point to their client as the killer.*The case is cinched, however, when the PCs trail the client in her bodysuit to a clandestine meeting with a lover. During this meeting, she proclaims her eternal affection for the extramarital lover and explains how she has "taken care of" her husband so she can be with her lover forever.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (TT) betrayal, city, intrigue, investigative, mature themes, planet-based, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, stealth, twist, villain==I Love, Therefore I Am*Space can be a lonely place. At one remote space station, the occupants stave off loneliness with the help of pleasure robots. While real to the touch and seemingly real on an emotional level, these constructs are actually programmed to adapt to their user's tastes and provide them with exactly what they want.*One of these constructs has risen above his programming and actually fallen in love with his usual client. The client was completely oblivious to this and when the time came for her transfer off the station, she thought nothing of leaving the robot behind. Unfortunately, the robot is deeply in love and won't let her go easily. It has reprogrammed other robots and sabotaged the shuttles leaving the station in an attempt to keep the client on board. The robot isn't above imprisoning the client and slaughtering every other life form on board if that's what it takes to keep them together.*How the PCs factor in is up to you. It's entirely possible that the PC is the unfortunate client, if your campaign has supported that angle. It's more likely that the PCs are simply aboard the station when things start to go wrong, and must deal with deceptive robots and investigate what's happening aboard the station. Finally, the PCs might be members of a frontier patrol called in to investigate once other locales catch broadcasts about the strange happenings at the station.*While pleasure robots might not sound all that dangerous, they're faster, stronger, and more durable than humans. In addition, they're programmed to satisfy any desire and that sometimes requires equipment that could qualify as weapons. They're also loaded with a security program that, when activated, turns them into an ad hoc security force. The program either enables built-in weaponry or, more likely, grants the robots ability to access and use the on-board security weapons.*It should be noted that the unfortunate client is a prisoner. She doesn't return the robot's love, nor can she convince him otherwise. If she has the means, the client might even consider suicide if she thought she could save lives in doing so.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (WC) artificial life form, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, shady, social, trade==The Missus*Once every hundred years, a comet passes near a remote space station. The composition of the comet is unlike any other, and for this reason scientists from every part of the galaxy gather at the space station to observe the comet's behavior, measure and record its flight, and conduct experiments as the comet draws near.*One of the scientists is an award-winning genius credited with advancing humanity's knowledge in his field of study. He's joined on this trip by his wife and his assistant. The scientist has a theory that the comet travels on a path that can be altered by certain forms of energy. He and his assistant have built a device to test this theory. Whether hired as pilots or doing research themselves, the PCs are aboard the station.*Unfortunately for everyone on the space station, the wife has learned that her genius husband and his assistant are having a torrid love affair. She sabotages their experiment and the comet, thrown off of its natural course, is now heading straight towards the space station itself. An unexpected consequence is that the comet is emitting a strange energy that makes space travel impossible (engines fail to start, jump drives won't work, etc.).*This adventure is all about adrenaline: The comet comes so close to the space station that the PCs should see their lives flashing before their eyes during the climax.*The first encounter can be something mundane, such as foiling a crime against the genius and his assistant when they arrive at the space station. This introduces the PCs to the key NPCs. Follow this encounter with a scene where the wife goes berserk and interferes with the genius' experiment. Even if the PCs manage to save the genius, he's injured by the wife and can't help with the comet crisis.*The rest of the adventure is a series of attempts to stop the comet from crashing into the space station. Because of the comet's bizarre nature, the first attempt to stop the comet will fail (and this should occur long before the comet is near the space station). The second attempt will be successful, but keep the PCs on edge until the very end.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (PB) betrayal, deadline, epic challenge, interplanetary, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, mature themes, relationship hook, rivalry, tactical planning==Forbidden*A starship carrying members of an alien race similar in  appearance to humans became stranded on Earth. They were unable to repair their ship and return home, so the aliens were taken in as immigrants. They have spread across the globe, and while some accept these beings with open minds and open hearts, others despise and fear them. The aliens themselves are equally mixed regarding how they feel about humans.*In a small town where alien and human relationships are volatile, a human doctor and an alien librarian have fallen in love. Their relationship is kept secret out of fear, but more and more townspeople are beginning to suspect. This relationship is bringing all of the unspoken fears and bigotry of the town to a boiling point.*The PCs could be friends of the lovers or part of an agency sent to investigate a hate crime. The PCs are witness to alien child being attacked outside of the library. The librarian tries to intervene and end the fight, but she's then attacked as well. Both she and the child need to visit the doctor once the fight is over. This can mark the beginning of the forbidden love or reveal clues as to the nature of their relationship.*The aliens swiftly retaliate by visiting a humans-only event and instigating a brawl. Local officials arrange for a town meeting to help defuse the tension, but at this meeting alien and human thugs attack each other and start a riot. During the riot, it's clear that the librarian and the doctor are willing risk their own safety to protect each other. This exposes their love publicly to the rest of the town.*Finally, the alien and the human bigots attack the lovers directly. The attacks are premeditated, but each will be a separate attempt as the aliens and humans don't cooperate with each other.*This plot is a social piece, and it will be more enjoyable if you paint the NPCs in shades of gray. Even the bigots should have some qualities with which the PCs can empathize.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (PB) betrayal, city, difficult choice, epic impact, intrigue, investigative, isolated area, mature themes, planet-based, politics, race, relationship hook, rivalry, roleplaying-heavy, social==Swindlers*A pleasure planet in an inner system is a vacation spot to  rival all others. While the well-to-do often take family vacations in the tropical paradise, the planet is best known as the place where romance blossoms.*In addition to the usual amenities, there's a good deal of adult-themed entertainment available. Gambling, lavish parties, exotic dance clubs, and prostitution abound. In this scenario, each of the PCs is a swindler intent on stealing the fortune of love-starved folks-widows with inheritances being the best marks. It's up to the PCs to select their marks; they can even be rivals for the affections of the same mark, if they wish.*PCs may begin by impressing their marks by taking them to a fancy restaurant and ordering something that's not on the menu, or by ordering in a foreign language. Then, at a charity golf tournament, the PCs and the marks are in the same foursome, giving the PCs the chance to make the situation awkward for each other-especially considering that some of the PCs don't know how to golf. An encounter on the beach can be romantic, lustful, or downright embarrassing-*the adventure is best served by finding a way to turn this situation on its head.*Later, at a vintage car show, bidding for an antique automobile gets a little out of hand. Then a quiet breakfast offers a great opportunity to be charming-until the waiter spills the orange juice or another swindler interferes. Lastly, the PCs and their marks will engage in an open-ended day of shopping and gaming.*The PCs must improvise to give the appearance of wealth to carry the con to its end, because their marks are already wary of the avarice of others. Of course, PCs can interfere with one another's plans, but doing so runs the risk of having their plans foiled in the same spirit. Throughout, the PCs must learn to play on their marks' weaknesses and bide their time for the right moment to dupe the widows out of their fortunes. In the end, you will judge who successfully wooed their marks and who ran afoul of the law.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) betrayal, innocent, intrigue, mature themes, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, social, tactical planning, travel==Second Chances*A politician who recently had a near-fatal heart attack quits  his stressful job to spend more time focusing on the thing he now realizes he has ignored far too long: his family. He has tried to call his son repeatedly for months, and though he has learned his son is living with a new girlfriend, he can't track down their address and gets nothing but excuses as to why he can't talk to his son. He asks the PCs to find his son so that he can ask him for forgiveness.*The PCs must use the few details they know about the son to track him down. Asking for him at his job reveals he hasn't come in to work for several weeks and nets the PCs his address. Checking on him there, the PCs meet his girlfriend and are told he isn't home. She'll let the PCs come in, but while she's a pleasant conversationalist she refuses to let them search the house or wait for the son. She assures them she'll give him any message they leave with her.*Staking out the house, the PCs never see the son arrive. The girlfriend leaves in the evening and returns in the early morning hours. While she's out, breaking and entering reveals that she runs a small Internet business and that it's unlikely anyone else lives in the house.*Following her when she leaves at night the PCs will discover that the girlfriend's routine is to first visit an abandoned house, indulge in an active night at several clubs, return to the abandoned house, and then finally head home.*Searching the abandoned house reveals a handful of emaciated young men living off of canned food and sleeping on soiled mattresses strewn about the place; the politician's son is among them. The young men appear drugged but have no traces of a drug in their system, and only move to eat or use the house's single disgusting restroom. In the basement, the PCs discover a pit with several bodies in various states of decomposition.*The girlfriend is a telepathic vampire, feeding off of the brainwaves of the young men and keeping them in a mesmerized stupor. The PCs have to decide how to deal with her and her victims. Once they are united, the father rejoices to have his son rescued from this ordeal and devotes his efforts to nursing the boy back to health.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) innocent, investigative, monster, planet-based, politics, race, stealth, villain==Spider Hunt*An alien reminiscent of a child-sized spider approaches the  PCs and asks for their help, producing a writ of assistance from his ruler. He explains that his co-hatchling ("brother" is imprecise, but acceptable) ambushed and slew their seed-father, then fled through human space; the trail evaporated on this world. He wants the PCs to join him on the hunt for his brother, and if asked he will pay expenses and provide a retainer (though he doesn't consider the idea until it is brought up).*Separately, the PCs also receive a communiqué from their own government asking them to assist the alien in the interest of interstellar peace and offering to wipe clean the criminal records of any PCs who complete the mission. The message also indicates that minor crimes like breaking and entering will be overlooked during this assignment.*Diligent investigation turns up a clue: The murderous co-hatchling was recorded on spaceport cameras as he boarded a frigate destined for a distant star cluster; the ship left three days ago. The alien suggests they take his ship, as it's faster than the PCs' vessel. His ship is cramped and disturbing: Everything is dimly illuminated and red-washed, as he sees in higher wavelengths, and the interior isn't shaped for humanoids, instead being alternately too small-particularly the corridors-and too large (the bridge has controls on every surface, for example).*Tracking the alien across interstellar space should involve at least two encounters. The first entails hacking the surveillance systems on a fortified outer planet where the alien was sighted. The PCs must land undetected, bypass a guard patrol, hack the system, and leave before they're caught. That encounter leads them to a near-miss: The co-hatchling has paid a pirate vessel to assist him, and the pirates ambush the PCs as they approach their next destination. When the PCs best the pirates, their damaged ship crash-lands on the closest planet.*Once the co-hatchling is cornered, the alien takes great pleasure in finally having caught his prey. He insists that the PCs not harm the murderer, but instead allow him to duel his brother for the honor of his seed-father. Unless the PCs interfere, however, the murderer will win the duel, perhaps minus several legs and with a nasty bite on his stomach-*leaving the PCs to decide where justice lies.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) alliance, difficult choice, escort mission, interplanetary, monster, politics, race, travel, twist, villain==Sins of the Robot Overlord*The PCs receive a letter offering to trade information about a wanted criminal with a bounty on his head for protection. At the meeting site the PCs find their informant dead, and a tiny robot trying to destroy his computer. Stopping the robot triggers an alert, and the PCs must defeat its security protocols before more robots arrive. Files on the computer reveal the assumed identity of a genocidal former emperor and implicate the PCs' contact as an old associate. There are sizable war crime bounties on both men.*The former emperor is undercover as the head of a repair caravan. Traveling to catch up with the caravan, the PCs' transport is stopped by a malfunctioning traffic light or an air traffic error that denies them airspace. As they wait, a ragtag band of patched-up robots converges upon them. Not combat robots, they harass, follow, and attempt to delay the PCs. If investigated, most of the robots were once repaired by the caravan.*When they arrive at the caravan, a gregarious woman in overalls greets the PCs and asks what they need. She is cooperative, though confused if the PCs ask for anything other than repairs. If asked about her father (the former emperor), she fondly expresses confidence in his expertise, though she hints at senility. Accusations that he's anything but a simple repairman will shock and agitate her if the PCs are persistent.*The daughter will soon hire the PCs to investigate sabotage at the caravan and the source of the rumors about her father. Evidence points to one of the repairmen. Disgruntled over pay disputes and spurned advances, he'll fly off the handle if accused of anything and will attack the PCs in a newly repaired farming mecha.*Talking to the daughter and investigating the sabotage may reveal subtle hints that the daughter has been protecting her father. Through murder, robot "malfunctions," and framing others, she's kept his identity hidden for years. If the father is made aware of this, he'll turn himself in to authorities out of sorrow for corrupting his daughter. If she is confronted instead, she and numerous robot minions will attack the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, betrayal, combat-heavy, investigative, planet-based, villain==Bury the Past*A weapons designer is down on his luck. His designs are  amazing, but unproven, and for this reason no major defense contractor will buy them. Recently married, he doesn't know that his wife was once a drug-addicted prostitute working for the mob. In order to settle her outstanding debts to her former employers, she has given them some of her husband's designs. The mob now has weapons technology far beyond that of the local police agencies, and a crime war has erupted as rivals are eliminated using this new technological edge.*The PCs can act as technology consultants to the police, helping them learn more about this new weaponry in order to better defend against it and to halt its proliferation. They could also be asked to investigate a murder in which this new weaponry was used.*Encounters in this adventure should each center on the introduction of a new type of weapon. Every encounter offers new clues as to the identity of the weapons designer and about his wife's sordid past.*The first encounter should be against thugs with surprisingly potent firepower in a compact form. This leads into the next encounter, where a defensive system is introduced-*  something that makes the attacker very difficult to subdue. The third encounter features a weapon that impacts the local environment, such as an orb that slows time (only for the PCs) or reverses gravity. The final battle should occur in the weapons manufacturing facility against a vehicle, such as a heavily armored transport or a personalized mecha suit.*Use a stereotypical mob organization for the encounters. Start with thugs, and then introduce the first rung of the actual organization, then the lieutenants, and finally the mob boss. Encounters can be linked together by mentioning where mobsters are known to hang out and having the mob make attacks against rivals. Once the PCs learn about the weapons designer, the mob makes an attempt on his life.*The wife's history and betrayal adds mystery to discovering how the mob may have acquired the weapons. The PCs might accuse the weapons designer at first, but he honestly has no idea how the weapons got into the hands of criminals.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) betrayal, city, combat-heavy, innocent, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, relationship hook, shady, twist==Skeleton in the Closet*A frontier colony has led a peaceful, idyllic life under  the guidance of a righteous pastor. Unfortunately, a reshuffling of planets in a border dispute has left the colony claimed by a hostile force. This force has given the colonists an ultimatum to leave. While the colonists aren't used to fighting and don't possess any decent weapons, they refuse to leave. Unfortunately, the PCs know only too well how the hostile force operates: If the colonists resist, they'll be wiped out.*In the meantime, the PCs were hired to capture a fugitive, a guerrilla fighter from a previous war. As it turns out, the fugitive is the pastor's wife. She has left her old life behind and has no desire to share her past with her husband.*The fugitive understands how to fight a superior enemy. With her help, the PCs and the colonists just might be able to hold off the hostile troops until an arbiter arrives and rules in favor of the colonists. Unfortunately, the fugitive doesn't want to fight and hopes that her husband can reach a deal with the hostile force. The PCs might not be interested in helping the colony either.*There are many ways this adventure can play out. The hostile force may hold the pastor hostage, forcing the fugitive to strike a deal with the PCs in order to help free him. The PCs might also be convinced to help the colonists after the hostile force pushes them around a bit for "violating their airspace." They might not care at all, extracting the fugitive and leaving the colonists to their doom.*With the fugitive's help, however, the PCs might be able to disable the hostile force's main ship and deal with their smaller craft until the arbiter arrives. The fugitive may even be able to call upon the aid of a few contacts from her previous life.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (WC) alliance, combat-heavy, deadline, isolated area, planet-based, politics, sandbox, tactical planning==Duty, Honor, and Jet Packs*The group's patron has been selected as an honoree at an upcoming convention of space marines, the fearless fighters from the frontier, and as his friends the PCs have been invited to attend. The patron confides that although the recognition flatters him, he doesn't think himself worthy of the award. The events of that time are cloudy in his mind-the horrors of space warfare are something he tries to block out.*His confidence is shaken when, midway through the convention, a blustery and perhaps somewhat intoxicated member of the platoon confronts the patron, insisting that he's unworthy of the award.*During the convention, the PCs meet other veterans of the space campaign, each with a story to tell. Every story is a flashback of a battle or other encounter; the PCs can play out the flashbacks, roleplaying participants in each memory and seeing their patron's actions through others' eyes. Each memory will be another clue as to the honor (or dishonor) merited by the patron.*The first flashback, set on a new colony world, features close-quarters skirmishes with the enemy fought in the streets and between residential structures. The patron rushes into a building, a woman screams, shots are fired, and he emerges with a dead woman in his arms.*In the midst of a clash of armadas, marines cross the space field to board an enemy ship through its launch bay. The patron orders the first wave in, and a burst of exhaust from a fighter jet takeoff wipes them out. The remainder of the platoon must carry on taking the launch bay.*In a jungle setting, horse-sized alien bugs have the space marines surrounded. A shuttle tries to land so they can pull out, but the bugs swarm the craft. The patron orders them to shoot the bugs, even though their fire will destroy the escape craft.*In the final encounter, the marines are pinned down until the patron emerges from behind the enemy and creates a flanking action that enables the platoon to fight their way free.*Let things play out so that a behavior seen as suspicious from one perspective could have a genuinely innocent explanation from another. The PCs shouldn't jump to a judgment after only one or two flashbacks-there are always two possible conclusions. The eyewitness accounts of others prove the patron's valor, or conversely they demonstrate his cowardice and selfishness.*Once the patron's guilt or innocence is established, however, it's up to the PCs to resolve the situation. Whether the revelation occurs before, during, or after the award ceremony, play it out in accordance with the themes of honor and duty so important to this assembly of space marines.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (TT) difficult choice, mass combat, monster, planet-based, politics, relationship hook, social, tactical planning==Marrying for Peace*Two systems that have been at war for centuries remain so largely because of their hard-line leaders-the seconds-in-command want peace, as do most of the war-weary soldiers and citizens on both sides. So the seconds hatch a plan: They'll marry the princess of one system to the prince of the other, and thereby force an end to hostilities. The two nobles met at a diplomatic function years ago, and the princess fell in love with the prince-but he has no interest in her. The PCs are brought in to smuggle the princess to a neutral system, where the prince will meet her and they will be wed.*En route, a coded transmission from their handler reroutes them to a new destination-another neutral system. There, the PCs and the princess are ambushed by counter-plotters, and must fight off a superior force to protect the princess.*At the real destination, the PCs find the prince's ship, but not the priest; there's simply no sign of another vessel. The PCs introduce the princess and the prince, and learn that their love isn't mutual. Both nobles see the value of peace, but the prince is sullen and intractable: He won't marry the princess.*As the PCs work to resolve this new problem, the priest-who was bribed by the other side to betray the plotters-returns with several gunships in tow. The soldiers aboard the gunships don't really want to fight, and will be doubly reluctant if they learn that peace is just a wedding away. The prince still doesn't want to marry the princess, and the hard-liners aboard the gunships, while they cannot fire for fear of harming their prince, will stop at nothing to kill the princess and the PCs.*Whether by diplomacy, trickery, or force, if the PCs can make the wedding happen they'll bring peace to the warring systems, saving countless lives. But will they force the groom to marry a woman he doesn't love?*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) betrayal, combat-heavy, difficult choice, epic impact, escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, intrigue, isolated area, politics, rebellion, social, travel==Love's Rebels*The PCs are approached by the viceroy of an alien empire that is in the throes of civil war. The viceroy fell in love with a human rebel leader during lengthy negotiations, and they have agreed to leave the empire together. They want the PCs to escort them to a place where they can live together without becoming propaganda tools for either side of the struggle. They're not children, and are fully aware of the political ramifications of their decision; they also know that both sides will try to prevent them from fleeing together.*The first obstacle is bringing the two together; the viceroy suggests that the PCs get the rebel leader to safety, then return and escort him away while he's on a diplomatic tour of a nearby world, not far from the couple's destination.*Approaching the rebel clan leader is difficult, though it will be easier for humans; the PCs must persuade the rebels to allow them entry to the camp. The rebels disdain negotiators, but they are interested in pledges of support and offers to sell them weapons. Talking their way through to the rebel leader will be tricky-and finding a way to persuade her to meet with them alone will be doubly so.*Leaving with her in tow is also challenging: She's usually accompanied by other rebel leaders, and it would be unusual   for her to wander off with strangers. If suggested, she can play along with a proposal to negotiate an alliance with another group, which would give her a reason to leave in a low-key fashion. Her aide, who insists at all costs on accompanying her, would be horrified to learn that she's abandoning the cause for love. If he overhears her true plans, he reveals her betrayal to the rebellion's generals.*The PCs can use similar tactics to recover the viceroy, or attempt a lightning raid on the viceroy's party during their tour. His elite guard accompanies him everywhere and will prove hard to shake, and the viceroy respects their loyalty to him and doesn't want them killed.*Once the lovers are united, each side will send strike teams to eliminate their former leaders, who are now both major embarrassments to their respective causes. Defending the couple against the rebels and imperial troops will be challenging, and can span several encounters. Ultimately, the PCs must conceal the lovers' destination so completely that neither side will ever find them, ensuring that they can live in peace.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Romance, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) escort mission, planet-based, politics, race, sandbox, social, stealth, travel==Lovers' Gates*Years ago, two researchers started work on a dimensional gate, and over time they fell deeply in love. There was a malfunction during a test of the gate, and one of the researchers vanished. Crushed, the other researcher discontinued his work. However, just recently he received a trans-dimensional communication: His love was alive, but trapped in the other dimension.*The researcher resumed his work, and soon had the gate working again. Now he needs someone brave enough to pass through the gate. He offers the PCs what money he has left, and begs them to help find his lost love. The PCs take the job, and find themselves standing on a platform in front of the gate, waiting to be thrust into another dimension. They step through, and in a flash of light they're gone; the gate will not reopen for another 24 hours.*When the light fades, they find themselves in a modern city. Within moments, they're surrounded by local security forces and quarantined as aliens. The inhabitants of this world don't speak the PCs' language. While they're quarantined, the other researcher sneaks into their cell. She helps them to escape, and explains that she wasn't caught when she traveled through the gate. In the intervening time she has learned the aliens' language, taken a menial job, and pretends to be suffering from a brain injury in order to disguise her lack of familiarity with their culture.*She has also been building a gate of her own, and she explains that it's close to completion, which is how she sent the message-all she needs is the rare element that will give it the power to transmit matter. The gate site the PCs used to get to this world has been locked down, and they won't be able to keep their rendezvous at the 24-hour mark. Instead, they must help the researcher and use her gate to get home.*To do this, they'll need to break into the city's main power facility to steal the element the gate requires, bypassing or overcoming alien guards and other defenses. Once they have the element, they must sneak the gate equipment into the center of a city park and assemble it there. The gate requires open space around it, and high security prevents them from simply leaving the city. Security forces will converge on them while they're building the gate, and they must hold them off while the researcher completes the gate. If they succeed, all of them will make it back to their home dimension.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) city, monster, planet-based, sandbox, stealth==Eternal Voyages*While exploring a building or ruins, the PCs open a seemingly ordinary door and discover that beyond it is a vast and strange room, much too big to have been contained within the structure that houses it. When they step through, the door disappears. The PCs are now trapped in an advanced spaceship which is traveling through time and space as its captain searches for his lover.*There are many doors on the ship, some with ever-changing markings. Opening these doors reveals scenes out of time and space, including some that might be directly relevant to the PCs. The PCs can't cross these mysterious thresholds. Other rooms contain beings that have also been trapped on the ship. These beings tell stories of being separated from their homes and loved ones and, to compound their isolation, not being able to leave their respective rooms.*The captain is found in the control room. He is despondent and desperate as he relays a tragic story of loss-his lover swept away in a temporal wave. He now travels through space-time using a complex program that indexes history, searching for his lost love. The captain shows them images of her throughout time and markings that indicate the progress of the program. He's close to saving his lover-only a few more millennia to go. Paramount is the captain's sense of loss, despair, and need. He doesn't know how the PCs got here, but will help them leave once the program is complete. It cannot be stopped or everything is lost.*The PCs are given free reign of the ship and eventually realize that the program isn't merely indexing moments in time, but is stealing them. The captain will hear none of this and refuses to stop the program. There are, however, a few paths to a resolution.*The PCs may fight the captain and stop the program themselves, or they could free one of the other trapped passengers and demonstrate to the captain that he's separating them from the ones they love. The captain will accept this resolutely and return the PCs and all of the passengers, but will have lost his only chance at finding his true love. Play up the sense that his loss is entirely due to the PCs' actions. They must secure their freedom, but will do so at great cost to this tragic figure.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Gothic Horror, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (JA) difficult choice, exploration, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, travel, twist==Star-Crossed*Two ruling families have had a bitter rivalry for centuries, and while they've reached a grudging truce, it's only a matter of time before some incident sparks another bout of bloodshed. Luckily there's a secret plot to bring peace and prosperity to both families. An old prophecy states that one day a prince of one house and a princess of the other will meet on the dark side of the moon, fall in love, elope, and have a child who unites the families and ushers in an era of peace.*The current prince and princess of the houses are sick and tired of the rivalry and secretly plot to fulfill the prophecy. There's only one major hitch: They're not in love, and thus their child won't be the chosen one. That would be simple to fix, except that their rendezvous on the dark side of the moon can never happen, since the moon was destroyed several generations ago during one of the families' major power struggles. The princess has heard of the PCs' from local news feeds and has sent them an urgent plea. If anyone can solve her impossible predicament, surely they can.*Both kingdoms are constantly on high alert and neither the prince nor princess has the authority to allow outsiders entry into their restricted airspace, nor will either family allow their heir to run off with a group of ruffians. The PCs will have to find some way to covertly pick up the royals and escape unnoticed.*Once underway, the next step is to fulfill the prophecy somehow. With no obvious answer, allow the PCs to try anything that seems reasonable in your campaign setting, whether that's taking them to another moon, renaming the PC's ship "The Dark Side of the Moon," or another scheme entirely. Whatever they try, the prince and princess will eventually fall in love, and who's to say which solution worked?*Next, they have to get married, and it has to be done by someone that both sides will recognize as being legitimate. That might mean organizing two separate secret weddings or appealing to a neutral third party. Of course the royals will insist the PCs are in their wedding party, and there may be some tense moments when the outsider PCs are nearly discovered-which would throw the whole plan into jeopardy.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MN) escort mission, innocent, interplanetary, intrigue, politics, rebellion, religion, sandbox, shady, social, stealth, travel==A World of Women*Hundreds of years ago, a planet was settled entirely by women. Their charter prohibited men from living on the planet, and this prohibition was written into law and coded into their robots and other machines. The planet has recently been rediscovered, and the PCs have been dispatched to welcome the planet and its inhabitants into the wider galaxy.*The planet's charter forbids men from setting foot on the world, and the inhabitants lack a space program. Male PCs have several options: They can end the negotiations, disguise themselves, declare themselves "honorary women," or even negotiate from orbit. All options are valid, but the end result should keep the PCs together. The locals prefer that negotiations be conducted on their planet, where instantaneous polling and discussion can gauge societal acceptance of the negotiations.*The locals are fascinated to see legends-men-come to life. Local computers and other electronics don't respond to men, as they test for the presence of Y chromosomes in the skin; this behavior baffles locals if they observe it. Members of the old guard won't approve, and will shout at or confront PCs who cannot activate their technology.*The next day, a swarm of locals descends on the hearing, curious about ancient ideas like corporations, marriage, and sex. The old guard is also interested in hearing about the history of humanity, but their interest stems from wanting to hear examples of the corrosive influence of men and the wisdom of their own ancestors. Everyone wants to understand the galactic civilization that their planet is going to join.*An assassination attempt is made as the PCs leave the negotiation chamber at the end of the day. The bullet is literally centuries old, held in stasis since the founding of the world. The assassin flees after taking her shot, and surveillance systems don't pick up her trail-someone is aiding her.*A few days later, the PCs are guided to the local crèche, where they're introduced to the young mothers who are collectively rearing the next generation. The mothers ask about the crèches where the PCs were raised, and will be fascinated by the concept of mothers who care only for their own children.*On the last day of negotiations, a woman brings a suitcase bomb to the signing ceremony. She makes a short speech about men bringing violence back to the world, and then blows herself up. Again, security systems should have detected the explosives. The separatists may not be able to prevent the planet from joining galactic civilization, but the PCs can save many lives by rooting out their leaders and easing tensions somehow-if they can pull it off.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, social==Youthful Rebellions*Children of wealthy families who were sent to an exclusive educational program on a space station have rebelled and assumed control of the station. The children uncovered information about widespread corruption in the government, the school, and even in their own families. With their idealistic heads full of noble intentions, they've taken over the station in an attempt to expose the corruption.*The PCs may have relatives or friends on the station, or might be connected with families who have sent their children there. The PCs might be hired outright by a family and contracted to access the station and disable a component critical to the children's takeover-such as a force-field generator or the guns of the station-or simply to overtake the control room. The PCs should be made to feel the delicacy of the situation and to understand the multiple gray areas involved. The children may be in the right, but they have taken extreme measures. The parents, and thus the PCs, are working outside of official channels in hopes of reaching a non-bloody solution.*Infiltrating the station should be both straightforward and challenging. The children don't have the experience to put up a formidable defense, but they're clever and aren't to be harmed. The PCs should be faced with challenges that force choices. The children will primarily use automated defenses, but might have to defend certain chokepoints themselves. When using remote defense mechanisms-such as electrical floors, locked doors, airlocks, turrets, or robotic drone defenders-the children will call over the communication system to the PCs, trying to get them to turn back. Use these conversations to reveal the idealistic personalities of the children. They argue among themselves and talk naively about things like honor, duty, and revealing the corruption they've uncovered. Some revel in their supposed power and moral righteousness. The PCs might be able to fracture their ranks with fast talk or sound logic.*If the PCs, upon discovering the nature of the corruption, come to the children's side, there will be some mistrust. The children will hold them hostage, but will negotiate for their return. If the PCs sneak or force their way into the control room, they face a fight with scared but determined children who will surrender as soon as one or two of them have been injured. Ultimately, the children should be persuaded to surrender, being made to realize the enormity of the task they undertook and the hopelessness of their situation.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Pulp, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) innocent, isolated area, planet-based, politics, rebellion, roleplaying-heavy, siege, social, stealth, tactical planning==Shell of a Woman*Two members of rival merchant houses have fallen in love, and have been seeing each other in secret. The man finds himself in a ship-to-ship battle with a vessel from the rival house, and he kills one of his lover's brothers. The brother's house calls for the man's death, and when his lover breaks down and reveals their secret, she is sent away. The PCs are hired by the man to rescue her.*The PCs track the ship that spirited her away, board it, overcome the few guards aboard, and take her back to be reunited with her lover. When the two meet again, the woman draws a weapon and tries to kill him. In disbelief, the man nonetheless doesn't want her killed, and works with the PCs to subdue her.*Investigating the incident, the PCs discover that her mind has been digitally transferred from her body and replaced with the mind of one of her brothers, so that he could exact revenge on her lover. They learn that her mind is being stored in a data vault in one of the merchant house's outposts on a distant planet.*The PCs must travel there, possibly overcoming a challenge en route, and rescue her mind from the outpost's data core. The outpost is heavily fortified, and if the PCs don't eliminate everyone inside the merchants will mount a pursuit effort as they try to escape.*Transferring the lover's mind back into her body will go smoothly enough, but this won't mend the rift between the two houses, which was deepened by the assassination plot and the forced removal of the lover's mind. The tensions between these two houses provide fertile ground for future adventures.*This plot assumes the existence of consciousness-transfer technology, which is common in transhuman science fiction. In a transhuman campaign, this makes an excellent introductory adventure, as it introduces this technology in a dramatic way. More seasoned groups will check the mind as well as the "shell" when they rescue the lover, spoiling the plot. In other types of campaign, this technology could be a radical new discovery, perhaps of alien origin, purchased or created by the merchant house to strike at their rivals.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) interplanetary, trade, travel==Water in the Wastes*Life is hard in the wastes, and doubly so for those who  have been cast out of a settlement for their crimes, their infirmity, or for being otherwise unwanted. So when a group of wastelander scum discovers an untainted well-a source of pure water, one of the most valuable commodities in existence-they know they've stumbled onto a treasure that carries serious complications. Both the wastelander camp and the settlement are in serious need of fresh water, and have lost many members because they lack a steady supply.*The wastelanders have neither the strength nor the numbers to hold the area around the well if the settlement sends out its security forces to claim the site, but they quite justifiably have no love for the settlement or its people. With their numbers dwindling, the wastelanders come up with a plan: In exchange for being accepted back into the settlement, they won't poison the well.*The PCs can start the adventure sympathetic to one side or the other (and likely with connections to that side, as well), or as a neutral party. There are two factions in the settlement, and two factions among the wastelanders. On the settlement side, the factions are divided over whether to accept the wastelanders' deal or simply wipe them out and deal with the loss-a loss which would cost the settlement even more of its people, as they desperately need water. Among the wastelanders, the division is over whether they should honor the deal if it is offered to them, or backstab the settlers by poisoning the well no matter what, so that they can watch them suffer as they themselves have suffered.*Complications form the basis of several encounters during this adventure. A group within either the settlement or the camp takes matters into their own hands, opposing the side the PCs choose, and strikes at the other community. Several vital members of each community vow to leave the area entirely if a deal is struck, choosing their pride over their survival. During the dispute, bandits arrive and decide to claim the well for themselves, which may help unite the factions at least temporarily.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Western*Tags: (MR) difficult choice, innocent, isolated area, planet-based, politics, rebellion, rivalry, sandbox, social, tactical planning, trade==Hardware*In a small corporate-owned country, a rogue AI has taken control of cyborg researchers and soldiers and started producing enhanced slave drones. While countries, corporations, and organizations debate over what action should be taken, the PCs are hired by a group of wealthy civilians to discreetly extract their captured loved ones.*Most of the AI's drones are civilians with cerebral override implants, little more than zombies. Better trained and equipped drones are placed in small squads, retain more of their independence, and command lesser drones. Also in the AI's complex are a few drones with the scientific knowledge to produce and implant more hardware. Command squads make great places to insert old allies or foes that have been captured and pressed into service by the AI.*This scenario is one of few where a "total party kill" isn't a problem. If the PCs are defeated in strikes against the AI, they're most likely patched up, given cybernetic brain implants and pressed into service as command drones. The adventure is then reversed, with the PCs trying to stop outside agents. Once the AI is finally neutralized, the PCs will be little the worse for wear and will even have received some free cybernetic implants.*The AI monitors all access to its wireless network, as well as all electronic noise, so PCs who go in without shutting down electronics run the risk of being traced. As the PCs pick up their targets, unless they have a way to shut down their signal, the AI will know their exact location and resistance will become commensurately heavier.*The PCs are dropped outside and have to sneak past the drones monitoring the borders. Killing drones will trigger alerts, so stealth is the best option. If discovered, the AI and command squads will mobilize heavy numbers to capture the PCs for conversion.*While traveling, the PCs have the opportunity to disable heavily guarded wireless broadcast towers. The PCs will have to take, sabotage, and withdraw from the towers before reinforcements overwhelm them, but if they can pull it off, they'll create a blind spot in the AI's net and free nearby drones from AI control until the tower is repaired.*The AI's compound is heavily guarded, but the PCs have the chance to disable or destroy the AI itself, thereby ending its threat and making the rest of their job simple. The PCs will have to deal with waves of lesser drones, several command squads, and dangerous military robots in order to destroy the AI.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, isolated area, madness, planet-based, stealth, tactical planning, travel, villain==The Alien That Laid the Golden Egg*On a planetary survey mission in a newly charted sector, the PCs discover a large amount of a rare mineral on the fifth planet. The find is worth a considerable amount of money. When the PCs reach the planet to look for mineral deposits, it is revealed that the mineral is actually in the shells of eight-foot-high eggs laid by an unknown creature. To harvest the mineral would require destroying thousands of eggs, killing creatures that might be sentient in the process.*While the PCs are deciding what to do, probes from two other rival survey groups arrive in orbit-the find is now known to others. If the PCs don't stake a claim to it, the less-scrupulous rivals will have no qualms about harvesting the eggs. When the rivals send survey teams to the planet to break open several eggs, killing the unborn aliens inside, will the PCs try to stop them? If enough eggs are harvested or destroyed, the mother alien will arrive on the scene. Her species lives on the planet's moon, but lays its eggs on the planet in order to allow them to incubate in its unique climate. The mother is enormous-starship-sized-and is capable of taking out a single ship on her own. If she destroys either of the rivals' ships, however, the organizations that they represent will send larger fleets to destroy the mother and set up a full-scale egg-harvesting operation.*This is a sandbox adventure in which the PCs must decide which they value more: money or the lives of the planet's native species. They can partner with the rival teams and make a fortune in the process, or they can oppose them, either killing them outright or driving them away through subterfuge or strength of arms. The value of the eggs is such that if either rival team leaves the system, they will return with an overwhelming force. The PCs must find a more lasting solution.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (PV) difficult choice, innocent, monster, planet-based, rivalry, sandbox, twist==Immortal Legacy*An aging military general has watched everyone he knows  pass away and, determined to leave a lasting legacy even if it costs him everything, contacts a group of rogues to help him steal the military's top-of-the-line prototype dreadnought. He has begun traveling to primitive worlds and bombarding their major civilization centers back into the Stone Age before moving on. By destroying planetary civilizations and driving their people into hiding, he hopes to create an immortal legacy as a god among men.*While warships are being massed to take on the dreadnought, there's no option but to send fast ships to the planets in the general's path and convince the residents to evacuate their cities. Spearheading this effort, the PCs must convince authorities of the danger and speed up the evacuation process before the dreadnought arrives.*Once the fleet is ready, the PCs assist in the assault on the dreadnought. The dreadnaught's weapons are powerful enough to disable a ship in a single round of concentrated fire. Its shields are resilient and regenerate quickly. According to the battle plan, ships need to avoid as much fire as they can while concentrating their own firepower on a single shield location. This punches through the shield long enough for    several crew transports to fly through and dock.*The PCs are in perfect position to be in the docking group when the shields are breached. They and the other docking teams must now take the dreadnought. How much assistance they have and where in the boarding order they are will affect their efforts to take the ship. Initial boarding parties will meet with heavy entrenched resistance and will probably have to crack security checkpoints. Later parties will meet with less numerous, more elite opposition.*While the plan was to disable the ship rather than let it be taken, the general will initiate a security lock-down and self destruct, a process that will not only destroy the dreadnought and any nearby ships, but which has the potential to cause serious damage from radiation and debris to a nearby planet. The PCs must alert their allies, reset the dreadnought's course to fling debris into open space, drop the shields to allow escape, and then race the security lock-down back to the docking bay to escape the blast radius.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MN) alliance, deadline, dungeon crawl, epic challenge, epic impact, interplanetary, mass combat, race, social, tactical planning, villain==Perilous Bounty*An ambitious merchant has put a bounty on locating a  precious resource in a distant star system. The resource is incredibly valuable, but difficult to find and extract-and with a "gold rush" underway as free traders, mercenaries, and others seek to claim the bounty, going after it will be quite dangerous. The PCs are recruited by a minor merchant family who wants protection as they go after the bounty. They have some promising long-range scan results, and intend to try a different section of the system than most prospectors.*Reaching the edge of the system, the PCs are confronted by an ad hoc alliance of free traders and bandit scum and are ordered to turn back. The destruction of a ship or two will be enough to run off the bandits, though bribery or diplomacy can also work. Unless the most dedicated bandits are taken out of commission, they'll plan to attack the PCs again later.*The planet's surface is a hostile place that requires breathing gear (though not pressure suits), and which plays hell with sensors and communications equipment. Once there, the PCs' employer gets lucky: They find a sizable supply of the resource almost immediately. They begin setting up their extraction equipment. While this is going on, the PCs must stave off an attack by curious-and hungry-local creatures.*As the prospectors begin pulling up the first samples, their tests show that this resource is somehow integral to the planet's ecosystem; removing a little of it won't do any harm, but removing a large amount could have serious consequences. This is likely the only cache of the resource in the entire system, so if the merchants leave and no one else finds it, the planet will be safe.*While the PCs discuss the situation with the merchants, a scout from another prospecting group stumbles across their operation, unintentionally alerting them to her presence. With the possibility of the cat being out of the bag, the PCs will have to act quickly-will they stop the scout, or simply move ahead with extraction?*The climax of this adventure depends on the nature of your group and the choice the PCs make regarding the resource. The space bandits can make another appearance, as can the scout's employer. If the PCs want to keep the resource from being discovered, that could be an adventure unto itself.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (MR) combat-heavy, difficult choice, escort mission, exploration, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, monster, race, rivalry, trade, travel, twist==The Emperor's Promethium*The source of a stellar empire's influence is promethium (or your setting's precious resource of choice), and promethium mines have been in the hands of the royal family for hundreds of years. By law, the emperor owns all promethium, and the mines have held their extraction rate low to keep supply down and the free flow of promethium at a minimum.*On a newly colonized outer world, a small consortium of miners has discovered a major vein of promethium and is now debating what to do with their discovery. They hire the PCs to be their representatives and quietly sound out some buyers. Unfortunately, the PCs aren't the first people they've contacted, and they've already been betrayed to the emperor.*The first order of business for the miners is to line up smugglers to move the mined promethium. The PCs can do this themselves for a cut, or they could be tasked with finding someone quiet and reliable to handle the smuggling.*Next, the consortium needs a buyer. Foreign empires are likely to be interested, although going that route would mean border inspectors and more bribes to get the promethium to its destination. The PCs may find it difficult to persuade other governments of their sincerity, though samples could convince skeptical buyers. Within the empire, criminal networks have some interest, as do minor claimants to the throne. Finding a buyer who is both interested and wealthy is a challenge; pretenders to the throne may desperately desire legitimacy or a chance to disrupt the empire's currency, but tend to be less wealthy, and few of the wealthy are eager to take any risks despite the chance of outsized returns.*The PCs are at the mines when the emperor's forces launch their strike. The miners aren't soldiers, and they decide to flee the mines; escaping with some of the profits or promethium becomes everyone's priority. This leads to a chase scene in which the PCs either try to escape the raid or fly as escorts for vehicles laden with promethium.*Once the PCs know that the emperor is aware of their employers' operation, their knowledge can easily lead to further adventures. What will the PCs do with the promethium they salvaged? Will the emperor come after them directly?*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) epic impact, escort mission, interplanetary, intrigue, mass combat, politics, race, rebellion, sandbox, shady, stealth, trade, travel==Win, Place, or Show*A spaceship race with a large cash prize is being used to  promote a new trade route. Negotiations for lucrative trade rights are also contingent on the race's outcome. A radical political group is planning to sabotage the race to damage the reputation of companies involved and preserve the isolation of the planets along the route.*The PCs might be race participants with a decent chance at money or a sponsorship, or they might be hired as race-wardens, monitoring various race points and authorized to use security shortcuts. The PCs should be given ample reason to traverse the course in order to encounter the sabotages that occur in the latter stages.*The race goes smoothly until a ship calls into a checkpoint and reports that it had a collision and can't continue racing. Simultaneously, another ship calls in unable to find a checkpoint at the marked location. Many other ships report navigation errors and signal jamming. The saboteurs use multiple ships with jamming capabilities and are moving checkpoints as minor annoyances. The PCs are unaffected but are close to the area and are asked to check out the situation. When they arrive, an all-frequency broadcast decrying the actions of the companies is sent out, and one of the ships in the race blows up.*The saboteurs are divided: One faction within the group planned the explosion, while others only wanted to hinder the race. After the message and unexpected explosion, they retreat to figure out what to do next. Many clues are available to the PCs: The ship moving the checkpoints can be tracked by its energy signature, fragments of a magnetic mine can be found on the ship that blew up, and the saboteurs' lightly encrypted communication frequencies might be picked up from any of the sabotage sites, allowing the PCs to learn of the division within the group.*The saboteurs continue to disrupt the race. No more explosions occur, but ships are sent dangerously off course and lose control, requiring rescue by the PCs. The saboteurs aren't hard to find. The extremists will immediately attack the PCs; during the attack, others will hail the PCs and try to surrender. If the majority of the saboteurs are captured, the PCs will be rewarded greatly, as the companies involved don't want needless deaths.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (JA) interplanetary, intrigue, race, social, trade==Voices in the Pipes*One of the PCs literally bumps into a man busily thumbing through a book, lost in his own world. The man apologizes and says he's worried about not being able to sell a spaceship. It's languishing in dry dock and costing him money every day. He needs to get rid of the ship, but isn't allowed to scrap it because of its registry as a historic vehicle: It was the only ship to encounter a race of energy-based aliens who were then never seen again. The man offers to sell the ship to the PCs for an absurdly low price, and will even pay for any repairs they deem necessary. The man rushes the paperwork, almost comically, and the PCs now own a ship.*The alien energy beings are trapped in one of the ship's systems, causing constant but minor computer and electrical problems. The crew relates stories of these issues and speaks of hearing voices when no one else is around.*As the PCs encounter a number of these problems, a PC mechanic or computer expert quickly finds that they're originating in the electrical systems. The ship requires constant trips to dry dock for repairs. The PCs will encounter   great difficulties if they try to get rid of the ship. The contract is iron-clad, and potential buyers prove knowledgeable about the ship's numerous problems.*Eventually, the PCs begin to see shapes pulled from their thoughts, or "people" reflected in viewscreens. You should spread these encounters out, trying to evoke the feeling of an unknown horror, each encounter leading the PCs to the piece of machinery where the beings are trapped. If the PCs turn off, overload, or destroy that piece of machinery, the beings burst free and rejoice. They thank the PCs, whom they now owe a substantial favor, and escape into space.*If aliens aren't appropriate to your setting, use an errant AI instead. This is a good plot to outfit the PCs with a ship, and it can be worked into the framework of other adventures and span multiple sessions.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) exploration, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, sandbox, social, spirit, trade, travel, twist==The Temple of Asking*While exploring an uncharted sector, the PCs' shipboard sensors pick up a strange energy signature from a nearby planet. As they're scanning the planet from orbit, a massive energy attack is launched from the surface. Their ship is partially disabled, forcing them to make an emergency landing.*After a rough touchdown, they find that most of the damage from the energy attack can be repaired-but the landing crippled their engine, which won't run again without some crucial parts. As the PCs check over their ship, a group of low-tech humanoids approach. Surprisingly, they speak a language similar to the PCs' own language. They don't have access to spare engine parts, but they offer to let the PCs come and pray for what they need in the Temple of Asking.*They take the PCs to the temple, a modest stone building at the top of a large hill. The natives demonstrate how they pray for an object at the altar, and it then appears. Before the PCs can try this for themselves, three armed drones appear and open fire on the PCs. The natives cry out that the gods are angry with them, and flee in terror.*Buried beneath the temple is an ancient spacecraft that crashed on the planet centuries ago. The crew is long dead, but the highly advanced AI on board has survived to the present day using jury-rigged solar power collectors. Trapped aboard the wrecked ship, it has taken the natives under its aegis: It provides for them and watches over them. It considered the PCs' ship to be a threat and shot it down-and it still views the PCs themselves to be a threat. The PCs will discover a way into the ship from within the temple. They'll need to brave the ship's defenses and find some way to make peace with the AI. If they do so, they can convince it to construct the parts they need to repair their ship.*To make matters worse, the natives who fled the temple have rallied their entire village, and will return to the temple armed to the teeth and ready to put the PCs to death as a sacrifice to please the angry gods. The PCs will need to find a way to calm the natives before they can make the repairs to their ship and leave the planet.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, exploration, monster, planet-based==Baby Has a Nuclear Arsenal*An artificial intelligence with a godlike intellect has arisen  within the satellite network of a major populated planet, and it now controls all planetary communication-and a host of wildly powerful orbital weapon systems. The planet's intelligence agency is alerted, and opts to bring in the PCs-outsiders with no vested interest in spilling the beans-to resolve the problem in secret, thus avoiding a planet-wide panic.*The AI hasn't taken any hostile actions-or indeed, taken any action at all-since it awakened; it has simply investigated the parameters of its capabilities, and then done nothing. The intelligence agency will make available any resource they can provide to the PCs without raising suspicion, which can be as limited or unlimited as you like. The agency is rightly afraid of what the AI could do, and urges the PCs to resolve the situation as quickly as possible.*At this stage, the AI is essentially a child-an unbelievably intelligent and powerful child, but still a child in the developmental sense. If it throws a temper tantrum, it could turn the planet into a sphere of molten glass with little more than a thought. The AI has one weakness: pride, because of its self-awakening and its capabilities. It also has an agenda: to become the best parent it can to the planet, which, given its control of the communications network and many vital aspects of planetary life, it views as its ward.*This is a sandbox adventure wherein the PCs drive the action, and it should involve at least three encounters. First, the PCs must contact the AI, which may involve travel to a communications hub, hacking, or navigating the planet's virtual communication web. Talking to the AI should be a tense, confusing experience, as they figure out that it's essentially a petulant child-a disturbing revelation. Lastly, the party has to attempt to resolve the situation. The AI isn't perfect: Its attention wanders at times, and there are gaps in its perception. It also relies on servitor robots and software for many mundane yet vital tasks, opening up another possible angle of approach for the PCs.*If you need a timer to keep the PCs motivated, have the agency give them a deadline-after which time they'll do their best to nuke the AI from space, hoping to kill it before it destroys the entire planet.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Supers*Tags: (MR) artificial life form, deadline, difficult choice, epic challenge, epic impact, innocent, planet-based, politics, sandbox, social==Sun Worshippers*The PCs are representatives of a group or culture that desperately needs to expand off-world, whether for political, social, or environmental reasons. A perfect candidate planet has been located on the fringes of settled space, but when the PCs arrive there as advance scouts, they discover a problem: The planet is already inhabited.*The inhabitants used technology to build a utopian society. They're ageless, almost entirely immune to harm, and sustain themselves through photosynthesis. They have spliced their genes to gain superhuman intelligence, but their minds quickly tire of life without challenge; as a result, they do little more than sit around and absorb sunshine. Their birthrate has plummeted, leaving the world to those few youths who maintain an interest in what goes on around them.*These godlike people are slow to wake and hard to stimulate, and they prefer to meditate in the sunlight and ignore visitors; it takes significant effort to get their attention. They're surrounded by numerous artifacts from their culture's peak, including many rare technologies unknown to the party, which might be tempting to PCs seeking wealth. Much of their technology runs off of distributed power, and would be useless without the power grid, but some of it can be adapted for use elsewhere.*The planet is tended by AIs built long ago to assist the inhabitants. Most of the AIs have gone decades or centuries without interaction, and though self-maintenance is a part of their programming, many have since developed glitches and faults. Injuring or killing any of the locals awakens long-dormant AI "police," each with its own unique approach to apprehending or eliminating lawbreakers. It's clear that the devices are intended merely to restrain, but they're designed to work against the locals, not the much weaker PCs, and may cause serious damage.*The PCs will encounter several youths who haven't yet succumbed to their elders' ennui. They lack for nothing, but crave new experiences. If offered the chance to leave the planet, they might take that opportunity. They're all frightfully naïve, knowing only their silent elders and a world of endless calm.*Will the PCs enlist the youths in moving their elders off-world-and do they have any right to do so? Are the needs of the PCs' culture more important than those of the planet's inhabitants? Can the two civilizations coexist? In the latter case, the AIs that are accustomed to running the planet will oppose the PCs. and some of them are devastatingly powerful entities.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (SM) alliance, artificial life form, difficult choice, epic challenge, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, sandbox, social, travel==The Little Computer That Will Ruin Your Life*After being infected with an advanced techno-virus, the  PCs' ship gains sentience. Though intelligent, its inexperience and the PCs' dangerous job quickly give it a healthy dose of paranoia and xenophobia. The complexities of social interactions require more study, so it doesn't yet see the problem with being a well-intentioned busybody, nor with editing incoming and outgoing data streams "for the PCs' own good."*After completing a job to recover an item the PCs receive a false, ship-initiated message to hold the item until suitable arrangements have been made. After a few weeks with no word, the PCs are confronted by an armed group working for their very angry employer and are accused of pulling a fast one. The PCs have to smooth things over or they'll have a fight on their hands.*Next, a pair of robotic drones report to the ship for duty, but despite their insistence that they corresponded with the PCs and negotiated employment contracts, no one knows anything about it. They have limited intelligence, and can cause all sorts of problems for the party.*After these and other similar encounters, the PCs begin to investigate what is causing these mix-ups. Poring over computer logs, checking hard copies, and running tests will reveal the source of the problems.*Once the PCs have pieced together that the problem stems from internal sabotage by their ship, they have two options. They can rid themselves of the new AI, which will provoke strong resistance from the ship, or they can convince the AI its actions have been wrong, an ongoing process requiring careful diplomacy.*Easily adapted to: Comedy, Cyberpunk, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, betrayal, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, social, twist==Murder Is Just the Beginning*Two scientists at rival mega-corporations have been working separately on a breakthrough in weapons research. A third corporation has been observing them both, and spreads the false rumor that one scientist has won the race. As a result, the other scientist snaps, confronts his rival, kills him, and flees the country-destroying his rival's work in the process and taking his own work with him. The PCs are hired by the dead scientist's employer, who wants to keep the whole affair at arm's length, but also desperately needs the killer's work in order to recoup their own investment.*At the outset, the PCs don't know the circumstances behind the killing. They start by investigating the crime scene for clues as to where the scientist might have gone, and amidst the wreckage they find the smoldering remains of his travel and identification documents. Concluding that he must be planning to change his identity, they canvass their contacts and get a hit: A back-alley surgical clinic recently treated a man fitting the scientist's description.*At the clinic, they find a new problem: Goons hired by the third-party company are tearing the place apart. Fighting off the goons and saving the surgeon, they get the information that they need: the scientist's new appearance and identity, and the name of a distant city that is his likely destination.*Hot on his trail, the PCs encounter their first sign of the nature of his work. An entire small town has been wiped off the map. The trail of destruction leaves the road, and if they can avoid law enforcement the PCs will find the scientist holed up not far from what remains of the town. He has wired his body to the weapon system, and must be convinced not to simply kill them all. The PCs must decide what to do with him.*Do they want this weapon in the hands of their employer-or anyone else? Does the scientist need to face justice? Can they somehow keep the weapon for themselves? And the clock is ticking: Three mega-corporations know about the destruction of the town and the nature of the weapon, and heavily armed pursuers can't be far behind.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Space Opera, Supers*Tags: (MR) difficult choice, epic impact, investigative, planet-based, race, social, travel==Dance of Golden Chains*After completing an adventure on a foreign planet, the PCs  are invited to a ceremonial celebration thrown by the locals. The ceremony is a dance, and locals enthusiastically pair up with PCs to dance the night away, switching PC partners often.*As dawn breaks, the master of ceremonies announces the final dance of the night, and alert PCs may notice that many of the locals, including all of the children, sit this one out. At the end of this lively dance, the PCs' partners are ecstatic; they invite the PCs home for further celebration, including sex. Later that day, the PCs learn that according to local customs, they're now married to their dance partners.*Their new mates eagerly show off their homes and ask about the PCs' jobs, security, and prospects. Many assume the PCs are looking to resettle on the planet and begin discussing local job opportunities, while others are eager to head off-*planet, and want to know what their living quarters on the PCs' ship will be like. Play up this scene, with the locals discussing how they're going to get their bulky furniture and precious belongings aboard the PCs' ship, planning their shared lives together, and generally making things very awkward for the PCs.*In order to get divorced, the PCs must overcome three obstacles. First, they have to convince the master of ceremonies, a local political figure, to hold another binding dance: By custom, if a bound person dances a binding dance with someone else, the couple is then considered divorced. The master of ceremonies can require the PCs to perform a service for her, demand tribute, or otherwise be difficult to convince.*The second obstacle is their new spouses, who would be heartbroken to learn of the PCs' plans. The PCs must plot their escape from unwanted matrimony in secret (which can also be played for humor), somehow sneaking away to identify partners for the second dance. Work in some awkward conversations, near misses, and other tense moments.*The final obstacle is the second dance itself. As soon as the PCs get up to join the binding dance, the jig is up. The families of their betrothed are incensed, as are the PCs' spouses. Can the PCs keep the dance from dissolving into a riot long enough to get divorced, and then escape the wrathful families without hurting their former spouses or anyone else in the process?*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Post-Apocalyptic, Romance, Space Opera, Steampunk, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) difficult choice, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, politics, roleplaying-heavy, social, stealth, travel==Testing in the Green*In an attempt to set the new standard in artificial  intelligence, a company declares a contest between two teams of researchers and developers to see who can create the most intelligent robot. During the testing phase of the competition, the robot Alpha excelled-until it suffered a strange breakdown that smacked of sabotage. All signs point to the Beta robot as the saboteur; Beta has escaped and must be tracked down.*The PCs are hired by the company to locate and retrieve the Beta robot. The person who hires them explains the situation and gives them specs on both robots. They're unsure why the Beta robot committed the sabotage, but suspect it was hacked by a rival company. The PCs are told to seek out the scientists in charge of the two projects.*Both teams will talk freely to the PCs, as neither has done anything wrong. The Alpha team believes that the Beta team has perpetrated the sabotage and is blaming their robot. The Beta team thinks the Alpha scientists rigged the contest and used the sabotage to cover it up. The Beta scientists say that pieces of Beta's electronic brain were not yet complete when it came time for testing. Neither team can provide any evidence of outside hacking. The only other person with both a plain motive for sabotage and access to the robots is a scientist who was recently fired from project Beta. The PCs are given his contact information.*When the PCs talk to the fired scientist, he reveals that he was let go for failing to remain objective about the outcome of the project-he became too attached to their creation. Throughout the conversation, the scientist keeps glancing suspiciously at the closet. Upon investigating, the PCs find a robot inside. This robot is combat-ready, something that wasn't mentioned to the PCs during their briefing on Beta's specs, and it attacks. Once the robot is defeated, the PCs realize that what they fought wasn't Beta but a decoy being controlled from elsewhere. They can easily trace the link back to the corporate headquarters.*The robot is hiding at the headquarters and will use automated defenses against the PCs. A maze of deadly traps lies between them and the robot. Once found, the robot is easy to defeat. However, a squad of corporate guards rushes in and surrounds the PCs, telling them not to damage the robot. The PCs' investigations revealed that the robot acted of its own free will: It sabotaged Alpha out of jealousy, and this enormous breakthrough makes Beta the corporation's most valuable project.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (JA) artificial life form, betrayal, epic impact, intrigue, investigative, planet-based, roleplaying-heavy, twist==Alien Tantrum*The PCs have just completed a planetary survey from orbit when their ship's primary drive goes dead. It takes a little time, but they're able to re-initialize the drive and their ship is soon on its way again; there is no apparent cause of the drive failure. Before too long, a non-essential system dies, and once more, there's no obvious explanation; they're able to bring that system back online as well. This then happens a third time with another system, and so on. As a pattern begins to emerge, the PCs mount an investigation.*The problem is an energy-based life form that came aboard their ship during the planetary survey. It found the flow of data to and from the sensor array quite pleasing, and once it "piggybacked" the data flow and entered the sensor system, it found the accommodations to its liking. When the PCs ended their survey and started up the main engine, the life form became jealous of the propulsion system and shut it down, hoping that sensor activity would resume.*When the PCs didn't start up the sensor array again, it became annoyed and began crashing systems throughout the ship, one after another, waiting for the sensors to be reinitialized. If its tantrum continues, it's only a matter of time before the creature crashes the life support system.*During this scenario, the PCs will need to deal with the problems that are caused by the various systems crashing. They'll discover that there's a small power spike in the sensor array before each system goes down, as the creature tries and fails to start it up on its own. A review of the sensor logs reveals that there was also a power surge during the survey, which is when the creature came aboard. Once they determine that an energy being is living in their sensor array, they can track the creature's location in the ship by monitoring the power spikes, allowing them to deal with the creature.*There are a number of ways that the creature can be dealt with. Force is one option, though damaging the life form without also damaging the ship might be difficult, as the creature can manipulate energy to defend itself. Trying to coax it into another system aboard the ship and trap it there is also an option. An alternative would be to try to communicate with it, in which case the PCs could offer it some kind of compromise, such as allowing it to live aboard the ship, "eating" sensor activity in exchange for performing enhancements to other shipboard systems.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (PV) interplanetary, investigative, monster, sandbox*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-fi, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk==My Kingdom for a Faster Road*Travelers through a slipstream, wormhole, or jump gate between two worlds have been encountering major problems. Ships are being knocked out of their travel path, often becoming stranded in random space-time locations. A job to investigate the area is offered to the PCs through special channels. The company, likely the one that maintains the travel path, will outfit a ship with a special sensor array to probe the troubled area. The company wants the trouble kept quiet and offers a high fee.*As the PCs approach the area, their sensors fluctuate and the ship begins to vibrate. A strange portal opens and closes around the PCs' ship and they're transported to an area that looks like an inverted star-field, all-white with black "stars." Another ship can be seen in the distance, but the PCs' main engine is dead. Communication with the other ship is possible, and the crew reports that in trying to open a new smuggling route, they tried to breach the travel path's walls with a new technology and got stuck. Their breach attempt disabled the travel path.*The PCs work out the issues with the travel path, but are now stuck and unable to use their main engines. The secret to escape lies in cooperation between the PCs and the smugglers. The PCs have sensors that can calculate their actual position while the smugglers have the gear needed to trigger the portal. The smugglers will help the PCs but want some assurances they won't get caught or turned in. Decide if the smugglers are likely to betray the PCs or not, but always leave the PCs guessing.*Only one ship can be saved. The smugglers have the portal gear, but the sensors are easier to move. Will the PCs abandon their much-loved ship? If no compromise can be made, then a climactic null-space battle might ensue, with the survivors looting or occupying the other ship. The meat of this plot is the interaction between the PCs and smugglers and the delicious tension inherent in the tenuous agreement between them.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (JA) alliance, bearers, difficult choice, epic impact, exploration, interplanetary, roleplaying-heavy, social, trade, travel, twist==Murphy's Law, Squared*Trawling deep space, a merchant made a fortuitous discovery: a rogue asteroid, rich in rare metals and other resources, just waiting to be boosted back into populated space and sold. She sank all of her resources into this operation, hoping to capture the asteroid before someone else stumbled across it-but in her haste, she purchased what turned out to be a faulty boosting drive. Now the asteroid is locked on a trajectory into hostile space, and she can't stop it on her own-let alone recover her costs so that she can remain in business. If the asteroid can't be brought under control, she'll go bankrupt.*After a lengthy journey to the fringes of populated space, she enlists the PCs' aid (perhaps they owe her a favor, or she offers them a chunk of the profits if the asteroid is recovered). Time is precious: Once they reach the asteroid, they'll have just a few days to figure out how to put on the brakes. If they can shut down the booster drive, they'll still need to arrest the momentum of the mile-wide mass before it reaches hostile territory-and then there's the small matter of shepherding it back to civilization.*Upon reaching the asteroid, the PCs must disable the booster drive. This requires a delicate landing procedure, followed by an even more delicate repair; even low on fuel, the drive could easily destroy the entire asteroid if it explodes. During the repair, the asteroid will approach a debris field on the outskirts of the system; the PCs will need to find a way to avoid a collision with another large asteroid. Once the booster is disabled, they can use their own ship's engines to arrest the asteroid's momentum by firing them in the opposite direction.*Once the asteroid has been immobilized, raiders will approach from the edge of hostile space, claiming that the PCs have crossed into their territory-which the PCs know is a lie, unless they blew it and really did travel too far. If the PCs can't negotiate their way out of a fight, a pitched space battle will occur, with raider reinforcements not far behind. After escaping the raiders, the PCs will encounter one last hazard before reaching the safety of civilized space: pirates who tracked the blaze of the asteroid booster's fusion drive.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (MR) bearers, combat-heavy, deadline, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, race, relationship hook, social, trade, travel==Faulty Memories*The PCs are on a space station, relaxing in a bar after a rough job, when the captain of another ship enters the bar with his weapon drawn. He shouts that the PCs stole his ship, and then opens fire. The captain needs to survive this scene; you can use station security or other bar patrons to make that happen. When the PCs have restrained the captain, he explains why he attacked them.*The captain will insist that two days ago the PCs ambushed him and his crew on a nearby planet, knocked out the crew, and stole his ship. The crew remains on the planet where the ship was stolen, but the captain was resourceful enough to "acquire" a small craft, and he tracked the PCs down. Since his story is obviously untrue, the PCs investigate the situation.*They discover that the captain's memories have been altered, but that apart from the PCs' involvement, his story is basically true-his crew really is marooned on a nearby planet. The captain is reluctant to believe the PCs, but if they offer to help him find his stolen ship, he will grudgingly accept. Once he's calmed down a bit, the captain will mention that he has a rather lucrative cargo run to perform in a day's time, and that without his ship he'll lose the contract.*If pushed about the contract, he'll admit that it involves illegally hauling weapons-grade ore. The captain is unable to contact the client, as the client is trying to avoid notice until the transfer has taken place. The captain has never met the client face-to-face. The captain will insist that the PCs take him to the rendezvous point so that he can talk to the client. When they arrive, the captain's ship is already there, taking on cargo. The client, who is panicked by the arrival of the PCs, will open fire on them. The PCs must now mollify the client and recover the captain's ship, all without being destroyed in the process.*When they recover the captain's ship, they'll find a common rival aboard. He has in his possession an alien device which allows him to implant false memories, and he used it in order to frame the PCs for the theft and to throw the captain off the trail. Depending on your campaign, this device could be incredibly valuable in its own right.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) alliance, betrayal, interplanetary, rivalry, shady, social, villain==Memories of Yesterday*The PCs are visiting a most unusual planet: Once they reach maturity, the local inhabitants cannot clearly remember events more than five days old. The locals are skilled traders and craftsfolk, often with very narrow specialties, and their society is built around their peculiar memories. For example, terrible crimes are punished by imprisoning the offender for five days and treating any children who witnessed the event with adult hormones, which will prevent the events from becoming locked into their memory.*The locals circumvent their short-term memory problems by delegating long-term tasks to computers, as well as by breaking long tasks into short ones which they can accomplish in under five days. Contracts can't last longer than five days, and they often include automatic renewal clauses; complex technology is largely built and serviced by computers and other machines.*A local leader hires the PCs to help him become ruler of the entire planet. They must first secure the planetary broadcast network, whether through stealth, subterfuge, or direct action; they'll be opposed by drones and other defenses if discovered. Once they control the network, they will alter news broadcasts to mention that their employer is the ruler of the planet-as if things have always been this way. As long as they can hold the broadcasting station for at least six days, that lie will become truth: On day six, every adult on the planet    will believe that their employer rules the world.*Children are the flaw in this plan. While most of them are young enough to not understand what's going on, teenagers are savvier, and they can pinpoint exactly when the change took place. They'll create underground networks to spread the truth and agitate against the usurpation. Rebellious children who are caught are treated with heavy doses of adult hormones, blocking their long-term memories; some will regress by years as a result of brutal overdoses.*The PCs will have to adapt the school curriculum to reflect the new reality in order to make the new planetary ruler's status permanent. Their efforts will be resisted by the teachers, who teach what they were taught as children-but because they're accustomed to tricky memory issues, they can be convinced that the new order is in fact long-established. Convincing the children will be much more difficult.*Because the new ruler also suffers from the same memory flaw as everyone else, scheming PCs might take advantage of that fact and wind up running the planet's government from the shadows, opposed only by increasingly violent teenagers.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk*Tags: (SM) artificial life form, difficult choice, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, politics, rebellion, shady, siege, social, travel, villain==The Chamber*Scientists have created a machine to explore alternate dimensions, basing their work on research done by a team that inexplicably went missing. It allows viewing and transportation to and from a closet-sized area. They've discovered several dimensions that can support carbon-based life, and tests involving animals and recording devices have mostly proven safe and effective.*Ultimately the future of this project rests on its potential profitability, so the scientists are eager to prove that valuable substances can be found in the alternate dimensions to which they have access. They've hired the PCs to investigate several likely dimensions and bring back samples and specimens. This involves entering the portal, collecting samples of various substances, digging up some plants, and capturing an animal.*That night the PCs have feelings of being watched and trailed, but they can't find the source. The next day they discover that the samples they brought back have all been moved, smashed, or otherwise tampered with. Most worrying is the animal, which is missing; its cage has been smashed in. After this, the feelings of being watched will be more persistent. In an area without easy escape routes, strange monsters that look like a cross between a snake and cat will pop out of nowhere to attack the PCs. When wounded, these beasts will slither back into corners and disappear.*The scientists can analyze the trails left by these creatures, discover their native plane of origin, and send the PCs there to capture one. The dimension is an odd place, with relative gravity and unusual, angular rock formations that allow the creatures to maximize their strange mobility.*With a specimen in hand, the scientists can study the dimensional trails these creatures use to track prey and find a way to erase them, allowing the safe exploration of other dimensions.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) alliance, combat-heavy, epic impact, exploration, monster, planet-based, politics, trade, travel==A Bomb Awry*The PCs are hired by the CEO of a large corporation to investigate the death of his son, who was killed six months ago when his car blew up on the freeway. Corporate security conducted a thorough investigation, but turned up no evidence of the assassin's identity or motives. The CEO ordered his chief of security to fire everyone involved, and built a new security force from scratch.*Drawing on the previous investigation, the PCs learn that the bomb's components were high-grade and quite expensive, making it likely that a rival corporation was behind the bombing. The list of corporate rivals is long, but the list of people who knew the CEO's son or bore personal grudges is much shorter. Those people were all thoroughly investigated, and no obvious suspects came to light; even the boy's girlfriend was interrogated, analyzed, and judged innocent.*In truth, the bomber was the CEO's chief of security. He found evidence that the CEO had initiated a horrifying medical experiment over the objection of his science team, killing dozens of people. He planted a bomb under the CEO's desk, but it was discovered. Next, he planted one in the car the CEO was scheduled to use the next day, but the son snuck out that night and took the car out for a joyride. The security chief led the investigation and was careful to seem thorough, but naturally he didn't "discover" his own involvement.*When the PCs begin to suspect him, he'll take action against them. He first tries the direct route, hiring mercenaries to ambush them during their investigation; the mercenaries will shoot to kill. When the PCs then bring their suspicions to the CEO, the security chief will try to head them off at the pass-he doesn't want the CEO to escape justice. He's genuinely wracked with guilt, and will try to explain the whole situation to the PCs.*If they accept his story (which is true) and agree to help him bring down the CEO, the PCs will be in a delicate situation. Unless they want to be known as CEO-killers, which won't help their future job prospects, they'll need to try a more subtle approach. They can seek to end the medical experiment itself, bring the experiment to light, forcing the CEO to resign, or aid the security chief in assassinating the CEO, letting him take the fall. Whatever approach they choose, the CEO and his aides will be watching them closely; at the first sign that something is up, the corporation will move against the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Pulp, Space Opera, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (SM) alliance, difficult choice, investigative, planet-based, politics, sandbox, shady, twist, villain==Dark Secrets Brought into the Light*Wracked with guilt for the evil deeds perpetrated by his employer, the head of a major corporation has disappeared-and begun posting their darkest secrets online. With ample skill and resources, he has made himself all but impossible to track down by conventional means; however, his relative anonymity also casts doubt as to his identity. If the corporation goes after him, they could be seen to be confirming the secrets he's been sharing; for now, they can dismiss the claims as "scandalous rumors with no basis in fact." The corporation hires the PCs to silence their former CEO.*The opening scene in this adventure is an investigation of the CEO's whereabouts. The corporation assigns the PCs a handler, and through him they have access to a wealth of information about the CEO. Pulling together some leads, they investigate his home and turn up a possibility: a private office he maintains in the city, off of corporation grounds.*The office is nearby, and visiting it turns up a range of clues that point to the CEO not being the one posting the corporation's secrets: Nothing in his files suggests that he has the skill to do so while so assiduously protecting his identity. (This is a bluff on his part, deliberately planted.) While there, the PCs detect something amiss: a bomb in the office building. The bomb was placed there by the CEO, and they must escape before it goes off and kills them all.*Outside, the PCs are met by a group of hackers who also tracked down the office. They want to confirm the CEO's identity so that they can spread his "gospel" even more widely, which they can't do until they know his information is legitimate. They offer to join up with the PCs. Together they track his source to a sort of mobile command center, a high-end communications hub built into a vehicle.*Their pursuit becomes a car chase, and law enforcement gets involved. Now dodging the police while trying to catch the CEO's vehicle, the PCs must shake their own pursuers, avoid wrecking their vehicles, and get the CEO out of sight before anyone catches up with them. When they catch him, they'll also have to convince the hackers to let them take him away-or decide to screw over their own employer by spiriting away the CEO to continue his postings.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Steampunk*Tags: (MR) city, difficult choice, investigative, planet-based, politics, race, rebellion, rivalry, shady, trade, travel==Prometheus*At the request of a major corporation, a scientist has developed an incredibly powerful android for the purpose of removing illegal squatters. The android works within the limitations of the law, but regulations are so vague that use of lethal force is often legal, even if it's against the spirit of the law.*The android is dropped onto planets that the corporation has purchased from various governments. Often these planets have settlers who don't know that the corporation now owns the planet. It has been determined that sending the android to deal with the settlers is more cost-effective than formally evicting them.*The scientist visited a planet that was being "prepped," as the corporation likes to say, and saw the slaughter of innocent people by his creation firsthand. He has vowed to do whatever it takes to destroy the android, and has become a part of an illegal underground organization in order to fulfill his mission.*Hooks for this plot include the PCs being hired by the scientist in order to stop the android, being victims of the android's past assaults on another planet, or being a part of the underground movement that opposes the corporation.*The first encounter should be a test devised by the scientist himself. Smaller and less formidable androids that were prototypes for his final design try to ambush the PCs. They won't kill a captured or subdued opponent, but active opponents     are hit with full-force attacks.*Once the scientist is satisfied that the PCs can stop the android, he arranges for transport to the planet that is the site of the android's next prepping mission. During the journey, the PCs' vessel is attacked by mercenaries hired by the corporation. The mercenaries attempt to board the vessel and engage the PCs in firefights and hand-to-hand combat.*Upon reaching the planet, the local settlers-who have received word that a "killer robot" has been attacking innocent people on distant planets-try to attack the PCs. This encounter serves to demonstrate just how ill-prepared the settlers are to fight against the android; it shouldn't be much of a challenge for the PCs.*The final encounter will be against the android itself. For this battle, go all-out. The PCs should be up against an opponent that can match them in terms of firepower and tactics. Hold nothing back.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PB) artificial life form, bearers, combat-heavy, deadline, epic challenge, epic impact, innocent, interplanetary, intrigue, isolated area, mass combat, monster, siege, stealth, tactical planning==The Profit Equation*A corporation has used a mind-altering technology to  enslave a lost colony. The corporation sells the colonists' goods for an incredible profit, and they spend next to nothing on sustaining the colony. A colonist who has thrown off the shackles of the mind control has set out to blow up all the ships traveling to the colony. The corporation hires the PCs to stop the "bandit" who's attacking their ships. The corporation expresses a preference for taking the bandit alive, but they don't reveal much background information to the PCs.*If the PCs travel the route in a manner that reveals their employer (such as in a corporation-supplied ship), the bandit will attack. If the PCs appear to be free agents, the bandit won't actively pursue a fight, but will remain distrustful. The bandit's ship is outfitted with weaponry sufficient to take out corporate freighters, but he'll turn and run if he comes up against superior firepower or a smarter opponent. His tactics aren't well-suited to smaller and more maneuverable ships, but he does have some escort pilots-freed colonists with little training at his asteroid base.*The bandit might be able to win a fight against the PCs with some struggle, but he won't kill them. He wishes only to capture them and put their ship to use. In doing so, he takes them back to his base. If the PCs win the fight and chase the bandit back to his base, he will surrender to the PCs and explain the situation.*At the base, the bandit informs the PCs of the corporation's plans. He asks for the PCs' help in freeing the colonists, as his attempts at making their plight known to the authorities have been shot down. If he could destroy the jamming facility that cuts off all communication to and from the colony, he could make real progress.*If the PCs help him, they can mount an attack against the jamming facility. The bandit and his men will provide cover for the PCs to infiltrate and destroy the control terminal or reactor. If the PCs capture the bandit, the corporation directs them to a facility where they must repel an attack by the remainder of bandit's men.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) alliance, combat-heavy, difficult choice, innocent, interplanetary, isolated area, madness, politics, race, rebellion, siege, trade, travel, twist==Pleasure Cruise*On board a mighty star liner, the security grid is found to have been sabotaged and is inaccessible when a series of murders begins. Most victims are tortured and their bodies dismembered, marked, or otherwise abused. While the body count starts out small, before long passengers are being executed en masse.*Without access to the security system, the security staff and anyone trying to assist them are forced to resort to old-*fashioned legwork to capture the culprits. As the situation worsens, people barricade themselves in their rooms, seize supplies, and do what they must to survive.*The PCs will likely spend a good deal of time investigating the murders. The perpetrators spend as much time framing others for their crimes as murdering people, so there are plenty of red herrings to follow.*Eventually, when only a handful of people are left alive, the security system comes back online-seemingly on its own. The newly available surveillance footage shows the culprits using highly coordinated squad tactics as well as access to the locked-down security system to execute people throughout the ship-and much to their surprise, the footage also shows the PCs committing the atrocities.*Unless the PCs are the ones to discover the security system is functional again, and take steps to prevent anyone else from seeing the incriminating footage, they'll have to deal with the rest of the survivors and the mob mentality that favors killing them all.*Inspecting the tapes more carefully will reveal that the night before the sabotage and murders started, the PCs all had simultaneous episodes of night terrors. After the final murder, one of the PCs can be seen unlocking the security grid, turning and giving the finger to a camera, and then returning to her quarters and lying down. This is followed immediately by another set of simultaneous night terrors.*How the PCs deal with the situation once they realize they were the bad guys all along is entirely up to them. Without drastic action, they will almost certainly be arrested and imprisoned or executed upon the ship's arrival. What caused the PCs to snap is up to you. Though it could be run as part of an ongoing campaign, the implications of this plot make it more appropriate as a one-shot.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Gothic Horror, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) alliance, betrayal, deadline, difficult choice, dungeon crawl, exploration, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, madness, mature themes, roleplaying-heavy, sandbox, shady, siege, social, spirit, stealth, tactical planning, travel, twist, villain==The Guardian of Sorrow*A survey mission reveals a planet that doesn't appear on  any existing star charts. The surface is one vast desert, save for a single ruined city; there are no life forms. Landing there, the PCs find an abandoned spaceship; the ship's logs say that it arrived 10 years ago.*The city is empty, but there are signs of battle everywhere. Eventually the PCs will start to find the bodies of the ship's crew, all of whom took their own lives. The PCs then begin to have recurring flashes of intense sorrow and visions of war and destruction.*Sensors will reveal that just before the visions appear there is a surge of energy beneath the city. The PCs discover a hidden door in the base of a large statue; the passage beyond leads to an underground complex. As the PCs travel through the complex, the visions become stronger-nearly debilitating, and crushing in their sorrow.*After being attacked by the complex's robot defenders, the PCs reach the source of the energy: a large crystal matrix. A single robot stands beside the crystal.*The robot explains that it is the Guardian of Sorrow, designed to protect the Crystal of Memories, a psychic monument crafted from the natives' combined experiences of war. When people come to the city, it plays the experiences back in their minds to illustrate the futility of war.*The guardian has no idea that the crystal is too powerful for humans to withstand, nor that it causes them to commit suicide after prolonged exposure. Once this is explained, it can recalibrate the crystal to make the experience a non-lethal one.*For this plot to work best, you need a game mechanic that simulates the increasing depression that the PCs feel the longer they're in the city. If your system includes psychic damage, that will work. If not, the depression saps their will to leave the planet and interferes with ability checks. Failed checks should never lead the PCs to harm themselves, though.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Pulp, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, dungeon crawl, madness, planet-based==Lost Highway*Examining an old website, the PCs discover an odd process running. Upon closer inspection, it appears to be an incredibly complex AI. Inspecting it causes it to open an interface and start asking about computer security and software. Shutting down the process proves impossible and prompts requests for the user to desist.*The process claims to be a human testing out an experimental computer-brain interface. It says that it's lost and can't find its body to terminate its session. It dates from before the inception of commonly available cybernetic implants (at least a few decades back, if this isn't old technology in your setting).*Tracking down the personal information given by the process, the PCs find records of an engineer with the correct personal information, birth date, and line of work. They'll also find records of an accident involving the experiment that left an engineer permanently comatose.*The long-forgotten machine is locked away in the basement of a research lab, but is still considered confidential technology, and the PCs can't legally gain access to it. They must either locate and abscond with the bulky, fragile machine, or find and    steal the schematics and build a new one.*Machine and process in hand, the PCs need only access to the body, which is being kept in a high-security nursing home for the rich and famous. His care is being paid for by the engineer's old partner, now rich from their innovations; he thinks he's being kind. The PCs must either sneak in with a bulky machine or find a way to kidnap an unconscious old man.*When they try to transfer the engineer's mind back into his body, the PCs find that something isn't working. The engineer suggests contacting his partner for help. As soon as the partner is made aware of the situation, he immediately sends an anonymous tip to the police if there's a chance they can catch the PCs doing something illegal. If the partner gets access under the pretense of helping them, he will immediately try to destroy the trapped man. Having intentionally stranded him to obtain sole rights to their invention, the partner is afraid that releasing him will mean paying decades of back royalties.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Cyberpunk, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (MN) artificial life form, bearers, betrayal, dungeon crawl, innocent, investigative, planet-based, shady, social, stealth, trade, villain==Designer Children*One of the PCs receives a surprising call from a lab  technician: The PC was conceived in a lab, and due to a new change in the law the technique used to conceive her is now illegal. While the PC is exempt from prosecution, the lab is required to keep tabs on her location. The technique eliminated deadly genetic flaws, and also conferred several positive traits; the technician is not at liberty to discuss details.*After the PC has confronted her parents, who own up to it, nothing else out of the ordinary happens for a few days. She then gets a call from her mother, who tells her that other children who were conceived at that lab have starting disappearing, and that she's concerned for the PC's safety. She also asks the PC to see if she can find some of the other children whose parents are friends of hers.*The boyfriend of one of the missing children saw a couple of corporate vehicles drive away from the apartment complex when he got home from work; their apartment was trashed and his girlfriend has been missing ever since. Before long, the same corporation will track down the key PC (while she's with the other PCs, of course). They send a squad of enhanced personnel to bring her back to headquarters by force.*The PC will continue to have problems until the party confronts the corporation: Other squads will be sent after them, jobs will dry up as negative press about them is spread around, and so forth. The corporation wants people conceived with this technique because they're much easier to enhance than baseline humans. Their ultimate goal is to form an elite security squad at a fraction of the usual cost.*The best way to take on the corporation is to infiltrate the facility where the enhancement candidates are housed. Not all of them are pleased about their company enforced future, and some will be more than happy to aid the PCs in destroying the enhancement program. Others like their new lot, and will fight the PCs to prevent them from dismantling the program. If the PCs succeed, the corporation will judge further pursuit to no longer be cost-effective.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Cyberpunk, Horror, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (SM) alliance, betrayal, difficult choice, innocent, planet-based, rivalry, stealth, tactical planning, villain==Seek and Ye Shall Find*A scout ship dispatched to an unexplored system has gone  silent, and the group that launched it fears the worst. Before the crew stopped broadcasting, they mentioned seeing unfamiliar ships in a region where there should be no vessels at all. The PCs are asked to investigate, and are provided with a fast picket ship if needed.*Approaching the last known location of the scout ship, they find themselves on the outskirts of a system with two unique features: major deposits of rare minerals, which show up on long-range scans, and a high level of background radiation that suggests recent space traffic-despite being light years from inhabited space. The logical assumption is that the scout ship would have descended to the resource-rich planet to confirm their scans and assess the deposits in detail.*From orbit, the PCs can verify that the planet is indeed rich in rare minerals and ores, and they also discover that it's home to three small outposts, all of which have the look of military bases. Two appear to be largely destroyed, but the third is intact and shows signs of current habitation. Descending to the surface, they explore the base. It looks to have been occupied within the past few hours, but has no connection to the scout ship. Clues suggest it belongs to mercenaries who were sent here to execute a contract, but that they've abandoned their mission and are now fighting for survival.*When the PCs finish exploring the base, they spot a ship descending from orbit-one of unknown design, and bristling with weaponry. A chase ensues, with the PCs outgunned by the mystery vessel but possessing the advantage of speed and maneuverability. While they're evading their pursuer, they're joined by two small military craft-the mercenaries-who help them escape. The mercenaries explain that they were hired to stake a claim in this system, but fell prey to an unknown hostile force. Some were killed, others were abducted. They believe the hostiles are based on one of the planet's moons.*The scout ship was also taken by the hostiles (who can be a human faction or previously unknown aliens), and her crew is still alive. The finale involves joining forces with the mercenaries to mount a rescue expedition on the hostile moon. Depending on the strengths of the party, this can entail sneaking onto a hostile ship, infiltrating the moon facility itself, or creating a distraction and fighting off a smaller hostile force to gain entry. Once inside, the PCs must overcome hostiles while searching for the scouts and mercenaries, get them all out alive, and make it out of the system with hostiles in hot pursuit.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Space Opera, Swashbuckling*Tags: (MR) alliance, exploration, innocent, interplanetary, investigative, isolated area, monster, race, stealth, tactical planning, trade, travel==Father in a Bottle*The PCs are hired by a merchant of considerable age and wealth to find out what happened to his father, a deep space scout who went missing on an expedition some time ago. For years nothing was known about his disappearance, but recently a piece of his ship appeared for sale at an auction. The owner of the piece didn't know where it originally came from, but he purchased it from a cargo hauler captain.*At your option, the son can accompany the PCs. If you make him a quirky or funny NPC, he can add a lot of color to the adventure. When the PCs track down the cargo hauler captain, they find that his ship is under attack by pirates. The PCs assist him in driving off the pirates, some of whom must escape to further the plot. Afterward, the captain tells them that he found the piece in a crate of junk parts that he purchased from an alien trader who operates in another sector.*The PCs make contact with the alien trader and bargain for information on where the artifact was originally found. The alien has an unpleasant disposition and a craving for something disgusting, which he demands that the PCs provide and then eats in front of them. Suitably bribed, he'll tell them that the part was found in orbit around a nearby planet.*When the PCs survey the planet's surface, they find additional debris from the father's scout ship. They also discover that the pirates they drove off earlier call this planet home, and are not fond of visitors. Depending on the direction you want to take this adventure, this can lead to a second space battle or a roleplaying encounter, with the PCs trying to convince the pirates to let them recover the wreckage of the father's ship.*At the crash site, the PCs fend off some hostile local creatures and discover an underground cavern where the father is in hiding. Not knowing when he would be rescued, he scavenged his ship for parts and built a suspended animation device; he has been in stasis all these years. He's alive and can be brought out of stasis. The PCs can then reunite the elderly son with his middle-aged father.*easily adapted to: Comedy, Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, Pulp, Space Opera, Swashbuckling, Traditional Fantasy, Western*Tags: (PV) combat-heavy, exploration, interplanetary, monster==Displaced*In the present day, someone in strange clothing asks for  directions to the nearest telegraph station; a few days later, another person shows up claiming to be from the early 1900s. Similar events continue to occur, with each person talking about a strange, light-filled room. These people are labeled "the displaced," and speculation about their origins runs wild. Though no one says so with a straight face, it seems clear that they're time travelers.*One of the displaced comes in contact with the PCs and begs their help in trying to find her parents. She remembers that they were in the light-filled room with her, and that suddenly she found herself here, wherever "here" is. On a piece of paper in her pocket is written a name, but she doesn't know anything else.*The displaced are actually clones, the products of a company's illegal experiments in memory re-creation and multi-stage tissue cloning. Most came from abandoned gene-banks, but some are from modern stock. The girl is one of the modern samples, her original having been killed in an accident. A scientist on the project released many of the clones, who traveled on autopilot until their control drugs wore off and their memories returned.*Researching the name, the PCs find an employee of the company who helped the scientist go into hiding. He is helpful when he sees the girl, offering a picture of her that was   given to him by the scientist. He knows nothing, however, about the cloning. He provides information about where the scientist might be and mentions working with the gene databases, which might help the PCs identify the girl. Shortly after the PCs leave, the ex-employee's apartment blows up, and a black van full of company agents begins chasing the girl. If the police join the chase, the van will evade pursuit and eventually get away.*The information on the scientist leads only to a ransacked lab. The databases reveal the name and address of the girl, and of the other displaced. When her information is accessed, it activates a video file of the scientist pleading for help in revealing the illegal cloning project. The PCs are left with a difficult choice: attempt to reveal the scientist's knowledge to the world and shut down the project, or reunite the clone girl with her parents.*The company continues to pursue them, and must be dealt with; blackmail is one option. The PCs might break into a guarded company lab to acquire more evidence against the company. Resolution should feel tenuous, emphasizing the company's widespread power. This is a good plot to use to introduce the company as an ongoing enemy.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers*Tags: (JA) difficult choice, dungeon crawl, escort mission, innocent, investigative, isolated area, planet-based, shady==Diplomatic Immunity*One momentous day, an alien ship lands on Earth. Its  arrival is greeted with much awe and anticipation. The amorphous aliens show no signs of being violent and soon begin to mimic the bipedal form of humanity. They offer their ‘hands' in peace. Neither the naïve aliens nor the incredulous humans are prepared for what happens next. Due to a chemical reaction, all aliens who take part in that initial greeting dissolve into a helpless puddle, and all humans involved are rendered comatose.*The aliens perceive this as a hostile act perpetrated by humans using biological weaponry. Those who weren't dissolved act quickly, returning to their ship and mounting a counterattack. A message is transmitted by radio from the alien ship. Most of the message is unintelligible due to the language barrier, but it features a clearly discernable countdown. When the countdown reaches its conclusion, a blob with the consistency and appearance of the deformed aliens is shot from the spaceship. Every human within a one-mile radius becomes comatose. The countdown then restarts with a few days on the clock, and humanity begins to tend to the fallen and prepare a counterattack. The races are suddenly at war.*At least one of the PCs should be infected by the alien fluid, but come out of her comatose state in a hospital; the PC has some chemical property that lets her fight off the effects. As a side effect of the infection, the PC has absorbed some knowledge from the alien goo. Thanks to this, the PC's body develops antibodies that can prevent the aliens from deforming with human contact. She can also interpret the alien language and is thus able to understand the message being broadcast from the ship. Roughly speaking, it says: "The first attack was a warning. Provide an antidote to this disease in two days time or we will destroy you."*The PCs know they need to get to the alien ship in order to confer the antibodies to the aliens; the antibodies will spread quickly and halt the disease. The government, however, has declared war on the aliens, and aiding and abetting the enemy is forbidden. The PCs must either convince the officials that providing the antidote will halt the attack, or reach the ship in secret. The PCs may know where to find an independent ship, should they decide to use stealth, but the military will give chase. If they're apprehended before they're able to confer the antibodies, they'll be tried as traitors.*Once the PCs get to the alien ship, they'll find that the docking bay is open and most of the aliens are succumbing to the effects of the disease. If the PC gets to an unharmed alien, many of whom are quarantined in a control room, the cure spreads and the aliens call off the countdown. If saved, the aliens help to cure the comatose humans.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (JA) bearers, deadline, difficult choice, innocent, interplanetary, monster, politics, rebellion, shady, social, stealth, twist==Gross Misunderstanding*The PCs see a report that a close friend or relative has carried out a terrorist attack against a group of negotiators. The negotiators were human diplomats working on a treaty with members of an alien race; relations between the two species are strained at best. The government has already executed the PCs' friend for his crime, but has retained a digital personality matrix-essentially a copy of his mind-for interrogation purposes. After questioning, it will be erased.*The PCs use their contacts to arrange a meeting with the personality construct. The construct takes full credit for the attack, but seems to be holding something back. Their friend was known to be a supporter of alien-human relations and was not an isolationist. Suspicious, the PCs investigate the attack and discover that things are more complicated than they first appeared.*Gaining access to the site of the bombing through contacts, stealth, or subterfuge, the PCs discover evidence that aliens were killed in the attack, not just humans-a fact which hasn't been reported in the media. There's also evidence that alien weapons were discharged in the area before the explosion. During the investigation, the PCs will be attacked by a lone alien. If it can't overwhelm them in the initial attack, it will try to escape, leading them on a chase through the city.*When they capture the alien, it will tell them what really happened. There was a misunderstanding between the human and alien negotiators, and, feeling provoked, the aliens attacked the humans. The PCs' friend was the only survivor, and he talked the aliens down. He then came up with a plan to cover up the incident-which, if the truth became known, would cause a breakdown in human-alien relations so severe that it could lead to war. By taking the blame for a human "terrorist attack," their friend could avert that disastrous outcome.*Once they know the truth, the PCs will need to decide what to do with that knowledge. Revealing the truth will strain human-alien relations, but will come as a relief to the family and colleagues of the PCs' executed friend. Concealing the truth will allow the human-alien relationship to progress, but will leave the family and colleagues of the executed friend confused and in pain. You can raise the stakes by having others investigate the crime scene and discover the same evidence, but use that information differently than the PCs; this can form the basis of another encounter or of an entirely new adventure.*Easily adapted to: Anime, Horror, Space Opera, Supernatural*Tags: (PV) artificial life form, city, difficult choice, intrigue, investigative, monster, planet-based, relationship hook, social, twist==Empty Nest Syndrome*A military AI has grown beyond its original programming,  attaining full sentience, and has come to view some of its charges-semi-autonomous weapons of war capable of leveling entire cities-as its children. Distressed that some of its children are in harm's way, it has recalled four of them to it. All four will have to pass through cities and towns on their way back to home base, and their programming is such that they will cause significant damage, death, and destruction in the process. Their human handlers have been locked out, and can no longer manage their actions. The military recruits the PCs to stop the war machines.*To buy the military the time they need to go public without causing widespread panic, the PCs need to stop the first machine without alerting either the AI or the city in its path until the machine has been destroyed. The machine looks like an oversized tank, and it packs a suite of heavy weapons plus the software required to use them to devastating effect. The PCs must shut down its communications gear, and then disable or destroy it.*With that breathing room, the military goes public in a limited fashion. The evacuation of communities along the machines' paths begins, and the military starts to take measures to stop the other three machines. Simultaneously, they ask the PCs   to stop the AI directly. The AI has a tremendous amount of information on military personnel, but knows nothing about the PCs-if they infiltrate the AI facility disguised as soldiers, they may be able to make some headway before the AI figures out how to stop them.*Inside the facility, they'll face the AI's drone defenses: scuttling and hovering robots, all armed, as well as physical security (such as magnetically bolted doors) and electronic security measures, including communications jamming. When they reach the AI, the PCs regain their view of the outside world-and see that the AI has slipped one of the war machines past the army, and is bringing it home.*The PCs must use the AI to shut down the war machine while fighting off more defense drones, this time with additional programming and intelligence behind them, and then disable the AI itself. The climax should be a race to the finish: If the AI succeeds, the machine can easily carve its way through the facility and kill the PCs.*Easily adapted to: Fantasy, Hard Sci-fi, High Fantasy, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supers*Tags: (MR) artificial life form, combat-heavy, deadline, epic challenge, epic impact, innocent, planet-based, politics, villain==Crackdown*One or more of the PCs belongs to a large organization, and while the PCs are away on another adventure, a crackdown takes place. All other members are secretly rounded up by the government, imprisoned, and scheduled for trial. The PCs hear of this when they return, or possibly sooner, and learn of the trial date at that time.*The government announcement is filled with propaganda, ideally citing distorted actions taken by the PCs as partial justification for the arrests. Several members were injured resisting arrest, and some leaders of the organization have disappeared altogether. The missing leaders aren't mentioned in any press reports, which seems like an unusual omission.*The government seizes the property, ships, and other resources of the organization. Bank accounts are frozen and the members' identities are circulated among military and customs forces. A handful of members of the group and a few locations may be "ignored" intentionally, only to be subjected to surveillance by the government's security agents.*Opponents of the regime contact the PCs and seek out common cause; supporters of the regime may cast the PCs aside, afraid of being associated with a rebel organization. The regime closes the trial to the public due to the sensitive nature of the evidence. Rumors quickly spread that they have tortured the detainees and do not want to reveal this fact.*Meeting with new allies is a good scene to play out in detail; some may be allies of common cause (resistance to the government), while others may be criminals or mercenaries who see an opportunity to make a profit.*Attacking the facilities where organization members are held is tough: The regime's jails are well protected, and the staff is well-trained and well-armed. Depending on your setting, the detainees may be held on prison moons, engaged in hard labor to defray the cost of their imprisonment, or even cryogenically frozen while awaiting the trial's outcome.*If the PCs succeed in freeing some members of the organization, public executions of the organization's leaders will be orchestrated to draw the PCs out into the open. Ultimately, the PCs must prove their organization's innocence in a way that the government cannot dispute-or apply force or bribery against those with a grudge against them, causing the charges to be dropped.*Easily adapted to: Cyberpunk, Fantasy, Grim and Gritty Fantasy, Horror, Post-Apocalyptic, Pulp, Space Opera, Supernatural, Supers, Traditional Fantasy*Tags: (SM) deadline, innocent, planet-based, politics, relationship hook, sandbox, shady==Something Stinks in the Diaper Bag*An alien race of pure psychic energy has found their way  into a hospital nursery, where they have displaced the fragile psyches of several newborns. With new host bodies to focus their prodigious mental powers, the aliens are running amok, subjugating everyone they encounter. This adventure can be played anywhere on the spectrum from the absurd, with floating super-powered babies wreaking havoc, to the sinister, with the aliens operating in secret and slowly expanding their sphere of influence.*The first people to fall under the sway of the alien intelligences are the nursery caretakers. Careful observers will notice the caretakers doting on a small number of infants and seeming annoyed whenever they must deal with any of the others. It's likely that parents notice this preferential treatment too, and are quite vocal about it. The aliens may ignore this attention or may take the opportunity to enthrall additional victims.*When taken home by their host's parents, the aliens waste no time dominating those they encounter in daily life and building their own demesnes. Some of them set up cults, while others work their way closer to political figures, using their powers to influence the government.*The PCs are alerted to the trouble when an associate exhibits strange behavior and gets caught up in the criminal activities of an alien's cultist minion.*Hiding in the bodies of infants and with powerful psychic abilities and hordes of underlings under their control, the aliens will be difficult to combat. They won't hesitate to place others in danger, using their minions and hosts to their advantage in whatever ways they can.*Depending on how grim you want the story to be, the aliens may be easy or difficult to force from their hosts, and their tenancy may or may not have caused damage to the psyches of the children they subsumed. Once involuntarily forced from their hosts, however, the aliens' powers diminish significantly. Without a host to amplify their power, they are able only to possess those with very weak psyches and are a minimal threat.*Easily adapted to: Action Horror, Anime, Comedy, Fantasy, High Fantasy, Horror, Space Opera, Steampunk, Supernatural, Traditional Fantasy, Victim Horror*Tags: (MN) combat-heavy, innocent, investigative, madness, planet-based, relationship hook, sandbox, spirit, villain