Chapter 2: Fantasy=Within this chapter, you'll find 334 characters-83 villains, 168 neutrals, and 83 allies-written for fantasy games but easily adaptable to any RPG and any genre. Among the villains are an assassin who disguises himself as a beggar, a ruthless princess scheming to claim the throne, and a fearsome wilderness guardian; among the allies, you'll find a child oracle, a prissy adventurer, and the folk hero called the Red Sash, to name just a few.=There are as many neutrals-characters with no predisposition to help or harm the PCs-as villains and allies combined, because these NPCs make up the bulk of the population in any campaign world. That doesn't mean that they're uninteresting, though, and with a little tweaking any of them can be recast as blackguards or staunch backers of the party. Among their number are a corrupt harbormaster, a barbarian freedom fighter, a singer plagued by scandals, and a cursed recluse whose skin sprouts small vines.=Whether you run an epic fantasy game or one in which the PCs have to fight tooth and nail for every copper piece, and whether you need a truly vile villain, an ally who the PCs would die to protect, or someone in between, you'll find plenty of NPCs to choose from in this chapter.=Fantasy Villains=From characters so abhorrent that they might make you cringe to humorously misguided wizards, this section is packed with villains for your fantasy campaign. Some are major antagonists, while others are better-suited to threatening inexperienced adventurers-and some won't look like villains at all until the PCs get to know them better. Many of these villains have redeeming qualities, as well, making them that much more interesting for you to roleplay and for your players to interact with. A villain you can empathize with becomes that much more believable.=1*=Erissa Darlee=Possessed Cleric="That is...most generous, great lord...but, that reward is better spent on the poor."=Appearance: Erissa is a hard fighting woman with traces of curves, shoulders that confidently bear plate armor, and eyes of chocolate brown. Her hands are scarred white where she once wrestled a great evil.=Roleplaying: There are pauses and hesitations in her speech as the dark power ransacks Erissa's memories, straining to keep up a veneer of humility and charity.=Personality: By day, the dark power pretends to be Erissa of old, serving in the town's poor districts, selecting its prey. When unobserved, it preys on the weak and helpless, leaving a trail of bodies and magically breaching the walls of Erissa's heart, where it is bound. =Motivation: Though Erissa is well known as a healer, and still praised in several popular songs, the dark power, cloaked in her reputation, is building a conspiracy within her church.=Background: Erissa was part of a famed adventuring company that fought its way into the deepest strongholds of evil. In their last adventure, they opened a doorway releasing a terrible power that blighted several kingdoms. As her companions fell one by one, she called upon her god and reached out to imprison it, knowing the terrible cost that would come due. The dark power dissolved into shadows and through her skin, binding itself to her. It became imprisoned within her flesh, and her eyes darkened as her mind was swallowed.=Traits: (SM) Adventurer, medic, saintly=2*=Lord Luiras Lashvale=Abhorrent Lordling="Hold him down, Laurense. I'm going to cut off another finger-maybe he'll make that priceless face again!"=Appearance: With his flawless complexion, golden locks, and aquiline nose, Luiras is a heartbreaker. He dresses to the nines, usually in silks and brocades, and carries a bejeweled sword and a barbed whip.=Roleplaying: Luiras is cocky, cruel, and hotheaded. He doesn't know the meaning of the words "compassion" or "caution," and it shows. He sneers like it's going out of style.=Personality: A spoiled brat who has power and wealth but lacks morals or common sense, Luiras sees the world as a playground for himself and his friends.=Motivation: Lacking a moral compass, Luiras is motivated by the desire to feel pleasure-usually at someone else's expense. He also wants to impress his friends, becoming much, much worse with an audience.=Background: Born with a silver spoon in his mouth, Lord Lashvale has always gotten his way. Spoiled rotten as a child, he's just as rotten in his late teens. What he wants, he takes-and he doesn't care if he shouldn't want it, or if it's not his to take. He's attracted a retinue of like-minded brats who venture out into the countryside to torture itinerant beggars, rape peasants, and generally act with reckless abandon. His equally unwholesome family shields him from the consequences of his actions, bribing people to look the other way as needed.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, aggressive, child, leader, notorious, royalty, wealthy=3*=Kale Rodale=Eccentric Wizard="Forgive the gloves, but my order does not permit contact of the flesh. Now tell me where the relic is located, or I will demonstrate my vast knowledge in the ways of agony."=Appearance: Kale is always seen fully clothed with a high collar and gloves. Other than his face, no exposed flesh can be seen. =Roleplaying: His voice is smooth, and he smiles too much. He never touches anyone and refuses handshakes or other types of physical contact.=Personality: Kale is oily and unscrupulous. He doesn't establish contact, physically or emotionally, with anyone or anything. He plays this off, often with a smile and joke, but cutting off all physical contact has left him completely dead emotionally. =Motivation: Kale is an adventurer in search of money, artifacts, and power. He desperately seeks satisfaction for all he has sacrificed physically and emotionally. Those who disrupt his drive are often dealt with harshly.=Background: Kale was born the son of tavern owner, and was far more charming than smart, with desires to leave the town where he grew up. His charm gained him entry into a lesser-known school of magic whose order required a prohibition of physical contact. He entered the school and became a proficient wizard. After leaving this school, he traveled with several less than scrupulous adventurers. Today Kale is an established wizard with some wealth and power, always looking for more.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, eccentric, magical=4*=Brynhild Skaldmeier=Honorable Mercenary="Gold will buy my services, but it will not buy my honor. My company will not kill the unarmed, nor take what is unearned, nor destroy homes and farms."=Appearance: Standing tall and proud, she is one of the most attractive warrior-maidens most have ever seen.=Roleplaying: She is honorable and professional, and sneers at cowardice or treachery.=Personality: Brynhild is the leader of a mercenary company, and her first loyalty is to her troops. She has a strong sense of duty and integrity.=Motivation: She pledges her life to fulfilling her contracts and to honoring her responsibility to her troops.=Background: Brynhild fled home when faced with the expectation of marriage to a pig farmer. She took up service in the military, and worked her way up the ranks. After a particularly nasty campaign where she was ordered to burn peasants' homes and slaughter their livestock, she resigned her commission. She started her own mercenary company, only taking troops who would serve with honor (with clauses to that effect in her contracts). While many of her employers have balked at her adherence to such a strict moral code, the company is earning a reputation for effectiveness and integrity. Brynhild may respect her enemies, but she will not betray an employer nor break a contract. Brynhild is in the service of a villain, and while she is still an honorable opponent who is difficult to dislike, that makes her a villain by extension.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, beautiful, leader, military, warrior=5*=Colin Kern=Political Construct-Maker="Machines aren't always perfect but, unlike society, machines can be repaired."=Appearance: Strong, commanding, and dressed in expertly tailored clothes, Colin's only visible flaws are a slight limp and an unusually heavy tread.=Roleplaying: Colin speaks in an authoritarian voice and uses his size to remind others that he's in charge. In his arrogance, he talks over others and is visibly surprised when anyone offers dissent.=Personality: Extremely intelligent, smugly superior, and used to being surrounded by toadies and constructs, Colin finds intellectual challenges, particularly in the workshop, irresistible. He holds little regard for anything or anyone, especially the unwashed masses. Faced with opposition, Colin relies on his position, power, and wealth to cow any who oppose him. If that approach fails, his minions are always available to show out unwanted visitors.=Motivation: Already a member of the ruling caste and commanding exorbitant resources, Colin now seeks political power and advancements in the crafting of his constructs.=Background: Colin holds a powerful political office and the constructs he has designed, though expensive, are widely used among the wealthy as guards and servants. By making his product indispensable and pervasive, he solidifies his political hold. When the moment is right, his golems will rise at his command and make him a major power.=Traits: (MN) Crafter, focal, genius, leader, political, power hungry, wealthy=6*=Peri Anolgrim=Sadistic Planner="Don't worry. The numbness will pass in a moment and give way to a rather unique burning sensation."=Appearance: She is a raven-haired woman in her mid-twenties, wearing a purple silk overbust corset with silver stays, a black skirt, and dark boots. A dark hooded cloak trimmed in silver surrounds her petite frame. Her fragrance is entrancing.=Roleplaying: Peri has a twinkle in her eye and drives conversation. She is polite and brilliant, adept at discussing seemingly unrelated topics. She seeks out those who are intellectual equals and ignores the rest.=Personality: A braggart who enjoys the game, she feeds her foes just enough information to remain one step ahead. Villainy is delightfully satisfying but she requires a muse. Subtlety is not in her playbook.=Motivation: Peri seeks a Sherlock Holmes to her Moriarty-someone equal to her brilliance. To that end, she will take risks and seek out worthy foes. If her plans go too well, she will deliberately sabotage them; the foreplay of the hunt is what matters most.=Background: Once an herbalist, Peri had a fondness for experimentation that went awry. Her brilliance led to a formula that she experimented with on herself, not only increasing her genius but her psychosis as well. She flutters on the edge of madness and is overwhelmed with a goddess complex. Her elixirs and potions can create all manner of effects, from mind-altering suggestive states to paralytic death (during which she taunts her victims incessantly).=Traits: (DM) Aggressive, charming, scientist=7*=Carissa Lawbringer=Iron-Fisted Guard Captain="To the stocks for disrespect; overnight should cure him."=Appearance: She sways in beautifully polished boots, an ermine-trimmed half-cape hinting at soft curves...and wears the badge of a guard captain. Classically beautiful, her pale features and ruby lips excite strangers and terrify the people of her district.=Roleplaying: Carissa loves to provoke people and make them jump. She slaps gloves into her hand and sensuously teases before cracking a club against a desk or wagon, always watching the eyes. Is this one prey or a fellow predator?=Personality: She revels in control, pushing ruthlessly when she has the advantage. If she lacks the edge, she quips a one-liner and exits, arranging for the next meeting to be on her terms. Unpredictability keeps her foes wary and on their back foot. An advantage must be exploited to its limit before it's spent.=Motivation: Carissa burns to eradicate criminals, who are barely better than beasts.=Background: A highwayman killed her father. Her mother was abused by the whoremonger she turned to for bread to feed her family. Carissa swore to end vice and enlisted with the guard, garnered respect for her determination, and rocketed up to the position of captain over the city's poor district. Lacking the funding and men to keep her rough district in order, Carissa uses fear to make up the difference.=Traits: (SM) Beautiful, notorious, police=8*=Thaddeus Quickmire=Evil Alchemist="Here you go, lad! Drink up, it's on the house!"=Appearance: A short, stout elderly man with a bald scalp and full white beard, Thaddeus wears a number of charms around his neck for various travel deities, all gifts from travelers. Thaddeus wears an apron and, when not serving patrons, is constantly wiping glasses.=Roleplaying: Thaddeus acts as if every patron is an old friend, even if meeting one for the first time. He is always cheery and upbeat, consoling hurting patrons that nothing is as bad as it seems.=Personality: He is almost giddy, but that's because of what he's secretly doing to transient patrons.=Motivation: Thaddeus wants to create monsters in order to make his tavern a more popular destination for adventurers.=Background: Thaddeus is a frustrated alchemist who was unappreciated by his previous employers due to his lack of ethics. He settled down as an innkeeper in a new land. His inn is located in a quiet village that did not sit on any main roads. Thaddeus has decided to drum up business by poisoning travelers with magical beverages, turning them into monsters. The monsters have attracted adventurers from all around and have made the inn quite popular. Thaddeus' drinks are harmless unless the second component, a morning beverage, is taken the next day. As the two drinks are inert otherwise, Thaddeus has managed to fool the few investigators who took notice of the drinks.=Traits: (WC) Abhorrent, business, criminal, magical, merchant=9*=High Priest Cyron=Unholy Priest="The gods demand your penance. I give you a path to achieve it. Come with me, either as part of my crew or as part of the vessel itself."=Appearance: His black velvet cloak covers his brilliant crimson robes. His profile is angelic, but his eyes are cold and distant.=Roleplaying: Cyron listens to his surroundings with his eyes closed, as if he were meditating. When he addresses someone, he will turn towards the sound of that person's voice, open his eyes calmly, and will proceed to speak softly and gently of the horrible fates awaiting all sinners.=Personality: He is a sociopath. Guilt and remorse are unknown to him. He will kill without hesitation and believes that all of his actions are divine providence; he can do no wrong.=Motivation: Cyron's ship is his only concern, and its crew is composed only of souls loyal to Cyron. The ship itself is built from the corpses of his victims, bound and shaped by dark magicks. Like all ships, though, it requires regular maintenance.=Background: As a young man, he was a sailor who was shipwrecked upon a rocky and desolate island. For days, he languished under the hot sun with no fresh water. Feeling his life and his mind slipping away, he offered his soul to any god that would save him. At that moment his ghastly ship rose from the sea, shattering his psyche and beginning his journey.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, beautiful, pilot, religious=10*=Amina Fawneye=Social Chameleon="That necklace she wears? See how beautifully it catches the light? It will be mine."=Appearance: Her large, innocent-looking eyes project integrity and honesty.=Roleplaying: She will say or do whatever it takes to build trust in her target.=Personality: She doesn't care for others; they exist to be manipulated.=Motivation: Amina gets her thrills from both a successful theft and the pretty baubles that are her reward.=Background: Born into a moderately wealthy merchant family, Amina always appreciated the pretty trinkets her father brought home from his travels. When her father's return trips became less and less frequent and the flow of gifts halted altogether, Amina decided to steal them for herself. When she was caught trying to steal from one of her father's clients-a scandal that nearly destroyed the family business-she was disowned, and she's been working the streets ever since. She's quite stealthy, and competent with traps and locks, but her real talent is her social grace. A natural chameleon, she's able to blend into nearly any situation and expertly manipulate others. She could go far in politics, espionage, or business, but Amina doesn't want success or money. She's content with her modest lifestyle, but occasionally will fixate on a piece of jewelry and use her considerable abilities to take it. Afraid that selling her trophies will get her caught, she either melts them down or keeps them well-hidden. She only wears them in private.=Traits: (KS) Charming, criminal, stealthy=11*=Najir Matrell=Inspired Tracker="Don't hold back your fear, it makes everything sweeter."=Appearance: Bulky and strong, Najir bears the scars of many battles and carries many cruel looking weapons. The cold and calculating look on his face is enough to intimidate most of his targets. His wild and dirty appearance belies his intelligence, another of his strengths.=Roleplaying: Najir will track anything for anyone, so long as they are paying. Those who get on the wrong side of his deductive mind and cruel, calculating ways rarely escape.=Personality: Born to a life of cruelty, he has little sympathy for his quarry and remains focused on his work at all times. Any close interaction with Najir quickly reveals his sharp mind.=Motivation: Najir loves the thrill of the hunt, seeing it like a fatal chess game for his body and mind. He would love to find an adversary who could outwit and outfight him.=Background: There was no love for Najir in his filthy hovel and there was rarely enough food for the entire family-until Najir started hunting, that is. In the woods, Najir learned to watch and learn the patterns of his prey before striking. He studied animals and other hunters, picking up techniques and developing incredible new ones. He quickly got bored hunting animals and moved to hunting people. He never cares who he hunts, just that they provide challenge and he gets paid. Najir studies his quarry for many days before striking.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, focal, genius, outdoorsman, warrior=12*=The Reverend Icabod Fraimd=Puritanical Priest="Why can't you harlots get a decent job like respectable folk?"=Appearance: Even the most recently pressed black frock hangs disheveled on his pudgy frame. His oval face is sweaty and some part of his greasy hair is always askew.=Roleplaying: He will harangue, accuse, insult, and badger anyone he thinks is giving in to their vices.=Personality: Bluntly put, he is an idealist. Reverend Fraimd envisions a day when his district is no longer assailed by ills that result from the corruption of indulgence. He is indignant and confrontational in the face of these ills. He doesn't hate people in unfortunate circumstances; he just hates what they do.=Motivation: He would save his section of the city by shutting down all the brothels, breweries, and gambling dens. He makes trouble for anyone who frequents the red-lantern district for its many "charms."=Background: A second son born to privilege, he sought a clerical education when it was clear he wouldn't inherit a title. He was an astute student of religious theory, whose superiors thought he needed to experience pastoral ministry before receiving an appointment in the church hierarchy. Confronted by the poverty, misery, and depravity in the area of his assignment, he accepted his calling with zeal. However, he was ill-equipped to serve his parish, with his righteous judgment winning out over any impulse for compassion and understanding.=Traits: (TT) Aggressive, religious=13*=Collector Yezra Darkmourne=Sadistic Priest="The Goddess blessed you with a good yield and you fall short in your tithe? I assure you that she'll repay you in kind when the plague comes."=Appearance: A tall, imposing woman, Yezra prefers dark clothes, usually with a leather jerkin and wide brimmed hat. She wears her red hair long in a single triple-knotted braid, typical of her order. She has a scar "tattoo" of the Goddess on her right cheek. Yezra rarely smiles.=Roleplaying: Yezra is blunt and to the point. She imposes punishments on those that haven't paid their full tithe to the Church of the Goddess. She dismisses sob stories with a wave of her hand and tells her victims what punishments await them.=Personality: She acts the part of the cold arbitrator, meting out proper punishments. Secretly, however, she enjoys inflicting pain, and often adds additional charges to her victims just for the opportunity to dole out more punishment.=Motivation: Yezra is a sadist and enjoys watching people suffer.=Background: The Goddess grants miracles in return for tithes. If a member fails to pay the tithe then she sends a Collector. Collectors are given autonomous authority to make delinquent worshipers pay. If they can't, the Collector punishes them with an anti-miracle. Yezra particularly enjoys her work, especially when it causes others to suffer. Those closest to her speculate that Yezra was a victim of the Goddess before she became a Collector.=Traits: (WC) Abhorrent, magical, religious=14*=Samael Pendergras=Embittered Assistant="I am through suffering the mayor's bloody whims-who is with me?"=Appearance: Samael is a vibrant young man with bright teeth, blond hair, and a dazzling smile. He wears his house colors of crimson and navy prominently beneath his inspector's cloak.=Roleplaying: Laugh and transition to a new topic-that's Samael's way of dealing with difficult questions. He trained as an orator, so his voice is perfectly controlled-booming through crowds or perfectly clear, but intimately quiet, among confidants.=Personality: Everyone wants Samael to be their slave, spending his effort on their petty problems. Fie on that!=Motivation: Samael hates being chained to another's will. He bristles at orders and subverts their intent whenever he can, but overachieves when given latitude.=Background: He grew up under his father's constant scrutiny and manipulation. At 14, he'd had enough and fled to the nearest free city, where he joined the guard. Taking orders was difficult to endure, but he persevered and solved a few hopeless cases with sheer effort. A few years ago, Samael came across a dark book that whispered promises of power and independence. Using the fell rituals contained within, obstacles to promotion were swept away until he stood at the mayor's right hand as captain of the watch. Now that the mayor's interference grows heavy, Samael's knowledge will allow him to garner terrific power through sacrifices and ensure that the atrocities are blamed on the mayor.=Traits: (SM) Abhorrent, magical, police, scholar=15*=Hartzell Preston=Bitter Huntsman="I do not fear pain, only the amount of it."=Appearance: Hartzell rarely grooms his brown, shaggy hair and badly cut goatee.=Roleplaying: His voice is commanding when talking to inferiors, but Hartzell is shifty in other matters.=Personality: A victim of circumstance, Hartzell is also a survivor. He does not like what he does, but prefers it to death or pain.=Motivation: He only wants to survive; the promises of wealth and power seem too far off to matter, but he might one day achieve them if he lives long enough.=Background: Hartzell has always been ground under the boot of one dictator or another. First it was his commandeering mother; then it was the lord of his land, always demanding more game for his table; and most recently it was the mysterious stranger who offered Hartzell great power and wealth in exchange for help in corrupting his village into a life of banditry. Hartzell is now the leader of the bandits, but still under the boot of his master and well aware of it. Hartzell fears the strange powers his master wields, and he will not disobey an order. When things are not going Hartzell's way in a fight or encounter, he will abandon his comrades to ensure his own escape. He is ever aware of what failure means and is always ready to pin the blame on someone else, even if it means eliminating witnesses amongst his own men.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, impoverished, outdoorsman=16*=Ursula Batal=Bitter Sculptor="You really don't like this piece? I guess I could improve upon it…or maybe you are just blind. What? Oh, I said that your knowledge of art is very fine! "=Appearance: She wears a simple tunic stained from working with clay. She is utterly ordinary in physique and facial features and is neither ugly nor pretty. She always carries a small amount of clay to work with.=Roleplaying: She tends to avoid eye contact and mutters to herself. Her hands are always busy molding a small piece of clay into various shapes. She will occasionally fall to fits of rage which, while rare, are frightening and explosive.=Personality: Ursula is forever frustrated by her lack of social skills, but she also despises others for not suffering as she does.=Motivation: She wants to be recognized as a great sculptor by her peers.=Background: Ursula has wallowed in mediocrity her whole life and has never made an impression on anyone. She hoped that one day, her sculptures would be her voice, but even they are ordinary and dull compared to what others produce. Desperately tired of being common, Ursula sought out and employed the use of magical clay said to bring an artist's vision to life. The recent reports of creatures made of clay attacking people must be mere coincidence…=Traits: (PB) Academic, aggressive, artist=17*=Marla Erets=Jaded Nepotist="Ugh…whips are so last week."=Appearance: A beanpole of a woman with wide-set fishy eyes and sharp features, Marla isn't much to look at. She often wears tight gowns that emphasize her androgynous figure.=Roleplaying: Marla fancies herself a vamp and isn't particular about who she cuddles up to. Spurning her affections, or refusing a proffered vice, often sends Marla into a tantrum.=Personality: Though she readily indulges her every whim, old experiences hold little excitement for Marla and she's constantly on the lookout for something new.=Motivation: Marla is petty and childish. She wants to grab and play with any new toy that she sees, and she wants to always get her way.=Background: Spoiled rotten by her rich and influential parents, Marla was handed everything on a silver platter from birth. She eventually became such a nuisance that she was given a position in charge of the city guard to get her out from underfoot. This proved to be an enormous mistake. She immediately began abusing her position, using the guard as her personal goon squad, and turning headquarters into a private hedonists' playground. There's a chance that she just wants acceptance, understanding, or the love of her parents. If so, it's buried so far down that no one ever sees it. Not even Marla.=Traits: (MN) Dilettante, notorious, police, wealthy=18*=Lucian the Beggar Prince=Humble Assassin="Spare a copper for a poor sinner, your eminence?"=Appearance: Covered in soot and grime and dressed in beggar's rags, Lucian ambles with the shuffling gait of a man who has spent his life in the streets. Only his hard, flinty eyes hint at his true nature.=Roleplaying: Lucian ducks and bobs his head when he talks, bows to anyone who looks well-off, and reaches out for coins with a quavering hand.=Personality: His humble life belies Lucian's great pride in his talents as a killer-he's unmatched among assassins, and he knows it. He feels no remorse, and views a perfect assassination as a piece of artwork, not murder.=Motivation: Lucian likes pulling the wool over peoples' eyes, and he's always on the lookout for information on potential targets.=Background: A decade ago, Lucian discovered that an assassin who can blend in with the city's poor gains numerous advantages, and he's never looked back. He's amassed a vast fortune, but regards accessing it as a sign of weakness; whenever possible, he works with only the tools at his disposal. No one in the city knows his dual identity, though a few suspect he runs a guild of beggar thieves. He wears a disguise when he needs to move in high society, and when meeting potential clients. Lucian is only truly happy when planning and carrying out an assassination.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, eccentric, genius, notorious, stealthy=19*=Mister Rankins=Immortal Murderer="Hello there, darling! So young and pretty, yes you are! Life is precious and must not be wasted. No, no, not one drop of it must be wasted! And if you can spend someone else's, why that's even better, my dear! Come closer…"=Appearance: Mister Rankins is bald with heavy lines on his brow and around his mouth. His clothes are slightly out of date. A bag of sweets can be seen in his coat pocket. If his bare flesh is seen, it is covered with tattoos of archaic symbols.=Roleplaying: He smiles and laughs, even at times most inappropriate. He loves to help young mothers who are in need, and he offers small sweets to their children. When cornered, he transforms into a vicious killer.=Personality: Mister Rankins is eerily cheery at all times. Nothing shocks or startles him. At times, his behavior appears inhuman.=Motivation: His only concern is to find, kidnap, and kill children-draining their vibrant lives from their bodies in order to extend his own.=Background: Rankins was once a miserly sage, pinching every penny so that one day he might call himself wealthy. Before that day came, he fell gravely ill. Lying quiet and alone on death's bed, he realized his life had gone by unlived. Suddenly remembering a text of dark rituals that he had begun translating, he managed to bumble his way through the rite and cast one on himself. Only later did he learn of the consequences.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, charming, focal, occult=20*=Vallie "Val" Staunton=Unscrupulous Treasure Hunter="A museum? The hell with that. This baby's goin' to the highest bidder."=Appearance: She's a tomboy-short and stocky, but in excellent physical condition. She keeps her flaxen hair cut close and favors trousers and sensible boots.=Roleplaying: She's quick to flash a smile that says: "Trust me." Her gaze turns icy cold if she believes she is being played or betrayed.=Personality: She's a likable traveling companion. While she'd prefer to use guile when snatching an item, she'll use violence if the situation requires it. Though willing to recover artifacts through diligent research and hard work in the field, she's just as willing to lie, cheat, or steal to acquire them. The money in her pocket erases any misgivings she might entertain about her profession. Vallie has one point of honor: She's never double crossed any partners that she's brought in for a particular job.=Motivation: Val likes the travel and adventure that comes from being a treasure hunter.=Background: She never intended to be an unscrupulous treasure hunter. But with each quest, it became easier and easier to bend the rules. The thrill of the hunt and the payoff at the end of every expedition shifted her moral compass. She's proficient with the matching pairs of knives she carries-two visible on her hip belt, two hidden on the inner calves of her boots.=Traits: (TT) Criminal, notorious, scholar, stealthy=21*=Ghul-Fan Hraska=Crazed Environmentalist="The Sacred Forest will not brook this violation, maggot. I cast you out, demon!"=Appearance: Dressed in voluminous black robes with an ankle-length sash inscribed with holy runes, Ghul-Fan wears a ceremonial fan of leaves across her back. Her expression is generally cold and intense.=Roleplaying: Cold, unemotional, and disdainful, Ghul-Fan barely seems human. If she found a toddler scratching his initials into a tree, she'd snap his neck without a second thought.=Personality: Beneath her zealous exterior, she's an insecure, small-minded woman. Mistreated her entire life, she found her calling in mistreating others.=Motivation: Ghul-Fan's calling-protecting the forest-could be a noble one, but she's insane. She believes all humans except those of her cult are a blight on the forest, and wants to wipe out humanity.=Background: High Priest of the Sacred Forest, Ghul-Fan leads a cult of crazed environmental zealots that reveres the oldest trees as gods. Intruders into her domain generally smell the incense from her censer just before they find themselves surrounded by the Oaken Wardens, her band of militant cultists. Ghul-Fan wants to preserve the sanctity of the forest at all costs, and her cult is notorious for killing woodcutters, waylaying travelers, and burning down settlements on the outskirts of the woods. On moonless nights, she can command the very trees to do her bidding; few in the area leave their homes when the moon is new.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, leader, magical, notorious, occult, religious, zealot=22*=Roland Stoutheart=Bitter Brigand="If Marisse can't be mine, then no one else will have her!"=Appearance: Roland is handsome beneath his wild locks. He still attempts to style his hair and wear his clothes proudly, but he looks like a peasant playing at being a knight.=Roleplaying: He is quite polite unless one of the victims is a suitor for Marisse, when he becomes quite ruthless. He speaks with a refined accent that betrays his former position as a knight.=Personality: Roland is as honorable and polite as a brigand can be. He is apologetic if things get too nasty and he'll leave his victims with enough to finish their journey. When a suitor is involved, Roland is quite ruthless and leaves no person alive.=Motivation: He wants to ensure that Marisse never marries.=Background: As captain of the guard, Roland fell in love with the beautiful Marisse and mistook her flirtations and dalliances with him as returning his love. Unfortunately, once a noble came courting her, Marisse reminded Roland of his place. He responded by plunging his blade into the suitor and vowing that Marisse would never marry. He fought his way out of the castle and hid in the wilderness. Since then, Roland has joined a band of brigands, quickly becoming their leader. He also keeps an ear in the castle. Whenever a new suitor attempts to call on Marisse, Roland ensures he never arrives.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, notorious, outdoorsman, stealthy=23*=Janus Benedict=Famous Adventurer="I'm looking for adventurers much like yourself, to help me recover a treasure. Equal share to all survivors!"=Appearance: He is a handsome adventurer whose friendly smile shows through his scruffy beard. He wears well-used but functional gear.=Roleplaying: Friendly and gregarious about the upcoming adventure, he doesn't talk much of previous exploits.=Personality: A true sociopath, Janus is not hampered by a conscience. He will say or do whatever he thinks is necessary to get his way, even if it means occasionally contradicting himself.=Motivation: Janus is addicted to the good life, and makes money by taking parties out on adventures, but coming back alone.=Background: Janus learned early on to hide his lack of conscience, and has been manipulating his way through life ever since. Once, in a hurry to flee a town after getting overly friendly with the mayor's daughter, he joined an adventuring party and managed to kill them all off before they reached their goal. Their treasure lasted long enough to give him a taste of true wealth. Since discovering his skill at this adventuring con, he's done very well. He has agreements with many monstrous clans to do his dirty work in return for a cut of the profits. He's actually a talented warrior and rogue, and has kept some of his victims' best equipment for himself. If he joins the PCs, your players will enjoy taking out their frustrations on him once they discover his true plan.=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, adventurer, charming, famous=24*=Miss Iona Blunn=Tough Con Artist="You are correct, milady. The ability to remain charming, polite, and engaging while making a point is an admirable trait in a trusted companion. So is simply being…reassuringly pleasant. Now, how long did you say that your lately departed husband was an officer with the bank?"=Appearance: Makeup and good grooming help hide the passing years. Mostly, it's her bearing and close attention to finery that maintain her attractive appearance.=Roleplaying: In manner, she mostly appears deferential to her lady. From time-to-time, Iona lets an exasperated expression slip.=Personality: In spite of a demure exterior, Iona's a tough-as-nails operator more than willing to endure even the most disagreeable employer to get what she wants. She can effectively charm, wheedle, cajole, bully, or intimidate others when she needs to.=Motivation: Iona likes to gain a position as a lady's companion, earn her trust, and eventually find a way to help herself to a portion of the lady's wealth without being caught.=Background: She was born to a well-to-do family and received a finishing school education, but has been on her own after a scandalous divorce. With a partner (usually one of a series of lovers), she travels about seeking positions as a lady's companion to run her con. Outwardly, she serves that role competently. Privately, she is always probing, trying to learn her employer's secrets.=Traits: (TT) Charming, criminal, wealthy=25*=Asteralla Sperrick=Disturbed Torturer="Ha, hah, ha, hah, ha. Silly. You don't get to hide secrets from me."=Appearance: Wrinkled and portly, Asteralla wears a thick leather apron.=Roleplaying: Asteralla cocks her head to the left when speaking, and peppers her speech with pauses and disturbing laughter.=Personality: Slightly insane, Asteralla is obsessed with knowing people's secrets. She conveys the most twisted concept of a kindly grandmother that one can imagine.=Motivation: She cannot leave a secret unknown.=Background: Asteralla is a torturer of the highest class. Once an apothecary's wife, few know how she got to the place she is now. However, she came to embrace the cruelty required by her position, and became very good at her job. To her, uncovering the secrets people hold is a life mission. Even her employers are wary of her, for if she believes they are hiding something from her, she will do her best to turn her tools upon them. When presented with a new subject, Asteralla employs many methods to get the information out, but rarely resorts to direct, painful torture. "Pain does not bring results: fear and uncertainty do" is one of her favorite sayings. Asteralla's tortures often involve the most subtle and carefully crafted manipulations of a person's psyche. Combined with the drugs she employs, few can withstand her tender touch.=Traits: (JA) Abhorrent, criminal, eccentric, medic=26*=Lana the Peace Bringer=Deluded Crime Lord="War is death. Violence is pain. Renounce such ways and follow me. It isn't as if you have a choice."=Appearance: She is tall and buxom with brilliant red hair and emerald green eyes. Her ivory skin is complimented by a fur cloak and bronze armor. She carries a matching bronze spear.=Roleplaying: She speaks kindly to people until they dare question her. When confronted, she will verbally or even physically assault her perceived adversary.=Personality: Lana is warm with words but cold in actions. She promises to lead people to a better life, but is oblivious to how she hurts others. She has no tolerance for anyone who opposes her or her organization.=Motivation: Lana is a crime lord with delusions of grandeur. She wants love from those she protects; if they don't love her, she will kill them.=Background: Lana's father was a notorious crime lord, but wanted a better, more honest life for her. She was sent to the finest academies and excelled in all subjects. Upon returning home, she learned her father had been assassinated by a rival. With her father's passion and the knowledge afforded by her schooling, Lana easily took control of the organization and eliminated her competitors. In her mind, she had delivered peace. She realized there were many territories that needed "protection." Fooled by her own lies, what she began for revenge and continued for profit has become a self-righteous crusade.=Traits: (PB) Beautiful, criminal, scholar=27*=Hubert the Indomitable=Arrogant Rebel="Royal blood? Bah! I've learned more in a week than you'll likely learn your entire life!"=Appearance: Hubert is tall and lanky, with his long hair in cornrows and braids that run to his shoulders. He has a peculiar fascination with crescent moons, which make up the bulk of the ornamentation on his blue and silver robes. He always holds himself high, as if he is above everyone else in the room.=Roleplaying: He acts as if he has nothing to learn, at least from those with whom he is speaking. He is dismissive of any opinion other than his own and congratulates anyone who agrees with him.=Personality: Hubert is haughty and actually does believe that he is one of the smartest people in the world.=Motivation: He wants to conquer the world, ostensibly for egalitarian reasons, but he intends to be at the top. He is also a voracious seeker of knowledge.=Background: Born in poverty and envious of the nobility, Hubert thought he'd be treated like them when he discovered an affinity for magic. He was sorely disappointed when the aristocracy still rejected him for not having noble blood. Enraged, Hubert went to the peasants and organized a revolt against the nobility. Since then, Hubert has been spreading his fief outward, overthrowing nobles with the aid of their own people. Unfortunately, Hubert often treats his subjects less kindly than their old masters did.=Traits: (WC) Genius, leader, magical, political, scholar=28*=Señora Adelina Reyes=Unlucky Captain="Just once, I would like our plans not to be blown off course by hurricanes, our own inept sea captains, or those uncouth privateers!"=Appearance: She is a dark-haired, dark-skinned beauty, resplendent in gowns for formal occasions. As a military governor, though, she more often wears a slightly altered male military uniform for her day-to-day duties and a custom-fitted conquistador's helm and breastplate for military action.=Roleplaying: When beset by instances of bad luck, she slaps a riding crop irritably against her leg.=Personality: She regards attacks by enemy captains, but most especially privateers, as a personal affront. As a member of the aristocracy, she views herself as superior in most respects. She embraces the concept of noblesse oblige.=Motivation: Adelina does not shy away from responsibility, so she is eager to act on behalf of the crown.=Background: As a younger woman, she charmed many men with her stunning beauty. When sickness and war claimed the lives of so many of her family's men, she assumed leadership of the family fortune and lands. Able administration of her property brought her to the attention of the crown and she was chosen to oversee an important military outpost in colonial waters. Her main duty is to ensure that treasure ships reach their destination along the main sea trade route from the colonial islands to the mainland.=Traits: (TT) Military, notorious, pilot, political=29*=Douglas Green=Avaricious Merchant="A sword is precious in a town under siege. Thirty-five drachmas-unless you test my patience by haggling."=Appearance: Douglas is a twig of a man, vibrating with nervous energy and exotic stimulants. He dresses richly, advertising his wealth, and has a hawk's gaze.=Roleplaying: His voice is high and nasal, and he spits out numbers so fast is seems like he's stuttering. He has all the cards and knows it; sly smiles and serious appraisal alternate across his face. =Personality: Profit is all. He's ready for a lifetime of luxury and willing to cut out any obstacle in the way. Money will buy everything he lacks-and those who can't see that don't deserve to be in business.=Motivation: Douglas grew up the son of a tinkerer, spat upon and constantly roving, doing odd jobs for a meal. He's never going back to that! He has to buy friends and companionship, so he'd better have money enough to keep them.=Background: His father made the trade of a lifetime, getting Douglas an apprenticeship in the merchants' guild. Most of the guild shunned his teacher, but he taught Douglas several key theories and let the child read books about trade. Douglas mastered them and noted that crisis makes or breaks a merchant. He orchestrates crises to ensure that his goods are in demand, working with bandits and unsavory sorts to eliminate competition and keep a city desperate.=Traits: (SM) Academic, aggressive, merchant=30*=Vester Mosser ("Lady Umbra")=Undercover Thief="Relax. Just remember the plan. Everything has been accounted for. The guard patrol? Don't worry, they have the night off. Everything is accounted for."=Appearance: Vester is of average height, with shoulder-length red hair and an athletic build. She wears her city guard sash nearly everywhere. Lady Umbra wears a dark cloak with black translucent silk over the cowl.=Roleplaying: She is all business, and rarely makes small talk. She looks people in the eye when she speaks and ends questions with the phrase "Do we understand?" As Lady Umbra, she speaks smoothly but never more than needed to convey her instructions.=Personality: Vester is optimistic, always believing that things will work out fine. Coupled with her focus to accomplish tasks, she is rarely wrong.=Motivation: Lady Umbra loves the challenge of planning complex crimes and then thwarting their investigation. The money is nice, but the thrill is committing a perfect crime. Lately, getting that thrill has required more elaborate crimes.=Background: Lady Umbra was a street urchin whose focus and ability to plan crimes helped her survive on the streets. After she had run the gamut of street crimes, she decided to pull her greatest caper, created the persona of Vester, and became an administrator in the city guard. From her role in the guard, she uses her knowledge to plan her crimes. She has a crew of thieves who execute her plans; none of them are aware of her alternate identity. =Traits: (PV) Criminal, focal, police, white collar=31*=Lissia Quartermaine=Hanging Judge="I shall see that you are beheaded in front of your children, to serve as an example to them."=Appearance: With her iron-gray hair, unsettlingly large eyes, and pinched mouth, Lissia's appearance is as harsh as her demeanor.=Roleplaying: Lissia addresses everyone like a naughty child. She mentions "the good of the community" at every opportunity.=Personality: Lissia is an idealist, but her idealism is tested on a daily basis by the evils of the world. She believes that everyone is fundamentally good, but that people are easily induced to bad behavior-and just as easily convinced to behave.=Motivation: She wants to see people do what she thinks is right, regardless of the human cost. She's absolutely convinced that her way is the best way.=Background: Lissia's not evil, nor even malicious; she just believes that more people would be good, and would behave, if examples were made of some of them. Her twisted philosophy is expressed through her judicial decisions, and as the highest-ranked judge in the region, her word is law. She hands down harsh sentences as she sees fit, from public humiliation for minor offenses to torture (rehabilitation) or execution for major crimes. If someone commits a minor crime but would make a great example to the rest of the sheep, she'll punish them as if they'd committed murder. She's immune to bribery and threats, and would die to preserve her beliefs.=Traits: (MR) Notorious, police, white collar, zealot=32*=Chamberlain Martain Capella=Royal Puppet-Master="Sir, if I may be so bold…"=Appearance: He wears a gold and blue doublet with matching breeches and the symbol of the chamberlain's office adorns his neck. He has well-manicured brown hair with a matching goatee. A silver earring hangs from one ear, a style which is all the rage in court these days.=Roleplaying: He looks down upon others with a bored expression. Martain speaks slowly and deliberately but doesn't hide his disinterest in what others have to say, picking and pruning himself while they talk.=Personality: He lacks regard for anyone not of his station or who doesn't respect the weighty responsibilities of being the true ruler. The chamberlain knows that he is the power behind the throne.=Motivation: Martain endeavors to keep control of as much government as possible. He likes the real power in his own hands and out of the king's: Kings are prone to flights of fancy, fits of melancholy and bouts of rage. Besides, kings come and go.=Background: His inclination for political machinations showed at a young age, and his first taste of power established his unfettered appetite for it. Since then, it's been a series of carefully constructed plans to eliminate his opposition and become the only whisper in the king's ear. Martain wields impressive resources, but they're technically not his. He abhors adventurers and their ilk; they're troublemakers he can't control. His plots are far-reaching and are difficult to tie directly to him.=Traits: (DM) Counselor, genius, political=33*=Hardy Harr=Jesting Puppet Master="Stop me if you're heard this one. The captain of the guard comes home and finds his wife in bed with the baker..."=Appearance: Hardy is gaunt with greasy blond hair that peeks out from underneath a traditional jester's cap. He wears a flashy jacket covered with bells and dozens of pockets stuffed with toys, novelties, and gewgaws.=Roleplaying: Quick with a tasteless joke or bawdy story, Hardy is constantly "on." He's sleazy and loud, and more popular than he is funny.=Personality: He is magnetic and energetic, and, despite his crude humor, he easily works his way into the confidences of those he entertains.=Motivation: Hardy desires nothing more than to be the voice behind a serious power.=Background: His popularity has been steadily rising for some time. Now he's constantly in demand, and has the ear of quite a few minor politicians, nobles, and merchant princes. As he gains the trust of greater numbers of influential people, Hardy sets himself up as a secret and trusted advisor. He revels in acting as a puppet master, playing those who trust him against one another for his own benefit. Hardy has begun to set his master plan into motion, aiming his advisees against those he perceives as a threat and keeping an eye out for greater opportunities.=Traits: (MN) Charming, counselor, eccentric, entertainment, famous, focal, humorous, power hungry, wealthy=34*=Duchess Yoruna Faede=Anxious Noble="We don't have time to wait. If my cousin gets home before we take the valley then we'll never cement my rule!"=Appearance: Just past her prime, Yoruna's body is soft from a comfortable life; she vainly hides her wrinkles under powder. She dresses conservatively and has an aura of command about her.=Roleplaying: She has a nonthreatening demeanor but speaks with a quiet menace. While not impulsive, Yoruna wants to put her plans in motion as quickly as possible. She fears that her cousin will return too soon and ruin her takeover.=Personality: Yoruna is pleasant as long as things are going in her favor. She is constantly brooding over whether she can complete her goals in time.=Motivation: She wants to be queen and isn't afraid to crush anyone that gets in her way.=Background: A cousin of the kingdom's naïve but just ruler, Yoruna was left in care of the kingdom while the ruler went off to war. Yoruna is not content being a duchess; she's decided to steal the kingdom out from under her cousin. She baited lesser lords first, promising them more lands in return for their allegiance. She has had troublesome lords assassinated or removed and is now laying the groundwork for a civil war to take the rest of the country before her cousin can return home and wrest it from her.=Traits: (WC) Dilettante, leader, political, power hungry=35*=Eldridge Delmar Hallsman, Esquire=Loyal Governor="There will be law and an orderly collection of taxes in this district! But it doesn't always take a regiment of foot soldiers to achieve your ends. The element of surprise is often enough."=Appearance: Aside from the powdered wig and military-styled coat that is the accepted uniform of his station, he carries a thick walking stick topped with a brass molding of his highness' face for a handle. His face bears a scar, a souvenir of his days in the royal navy when he fought off a corsair boarding party.=Roleplaying: Governor Hallsman is dispassionate but creative in carrying out his duties. He comes at problems sideways. When contemplating his next move, he'll absentmindedly rub his thumb and forefinger together.=Personality: He shows no favor in his administration, with the exception of bowing to the wishes of his sponsor, the duke. He knows that to use the regiment of soldiers at his command as a blunt force weapon is heavy-handed and unnecessary. Eldridge prefers a refined and subtle approach.=Motivation: He believes it's his duty to uphold the laws and policies of the crown.=Background: Eldridge advanced his social standing by serving with distinction, fighting enemy privateers in colonial waters. He saved the life of a young officer, whose father, it turned out, was a duke. This association led to appointments, including governance of this troublesome district, filled with rabble-rousers, political freethinkers, and insurrectionists.=Traits: (TT) Leader, military, wealthy=36*=King Ameo Rothir=Unholy King="Hear me this day! The heathens across our border plot the downfall of our great kingdom and will force us to worship their god. I tell you that we will not wait for their plans to finish, for we will strike tonight!"=Appearance: Rothir is slightly overweight. He wears a plain metal crown on his shaved head, and little jewelry. His robes are simple. =Roleplaying: The King is well spoken, and he often quotes religious text. He can be both passionate and long-winded in his religious fervor. He frequently bolts up from his chair and makes wild gestures as he speaks.=Personality: Ameo is very passionate in all he does religiously and as a leader. When he takes an interest in something, it governs his strong emotions. His passion has made him a strict follower of the tenets of his religion, and he has given up most luxuries in pursuit of divine enlightenment.=Motivation: King Rothir's goal is to spread the religion of his god to everyone in his land, and then to the rest of the world. =Background: King Rothir was born to royalty, the fifth in his family line to rule. After his wife died early in his reign, he discovered a new religion from a far away land-a religion of dark doctrine. He quickly embraced it and converted his kingdom by force. Now he is amassing a holy army to bring his religion to the surrounding lands. =Traits: (PV) Focal, leader, royalty, saintly =37*=Sagil=Insane Cleric="I merely wish to know what lies beyond reality, even if that means destroying everything."=Appearance: He wears traditional dark purple robes topped with a cobra-shaped helmet. His expression fluctuates between anger and insane curiosity.=Roleplaying: Sagil's insanity is easily visible, but he is still able to influence his minions and keep them in line.=Personality: His mind writhes and fluctuates as he tries to make sense of the incomprehensible things he has seen. He can flip from calm and curious to irate and violent in a moment.=Motivation: He seeks to tear down the walls of reality and see what lies beyond it.=Background: Once a high-ranking cleric of a benevolent and kind deity, Sagil got a glimpse beyond the walls of ordered reality; the things he saw drove him mad. Sagil began to worship a new god, a snake being who gave him great power. He has set about on a new holy mission-to see beyond the walls again, no matter what the cost. He believes that the only way to see beyond reality is to destroy it. He sends his minions out to capture relics of power that will let him do this. Sagil spreads his insanity to his minions, giving them just enough of his madness to believe in him but still be effective in their roles. Encounters with Sagil might lead to him using his power to convert or corrupt a weak-willed PC.=Traits: (JA) Eccentric, leader, occult, power hungry, religious=38*=Sgt. Johan Belzor, the Hand of Blood=Vengeful Warrior="I was once for king and country, now I am merely for revenge."=Appearance: Strong of build, he carries a large sword effortlessly. His face and body bear horrendous scars. He wears a mockery of his country's armor.=Roleplaying: Uncompromising in his quest for revenge, Johan will hear no logic against it. He only seeks to make the king cower in fear of his fury.=Personality: Johan is harsh, cruel, and uncaring. He has left all kindness and compassion behind.=Motivation: Belzor wishes to see the king as helpless as he was when the royal hunting party left him to die.=Background: While accompanying his king on a hunting party, a monstrous beast fell upon the group. Fighting valiantly to save his liege, Johan slew the beast, but not before it disfigured him terribly. Rather than saving him, the king decided it wasn't worth the effort and left him to die. Saved by a witch and her supernatural spells, Johan gained fearsome abilities and vowed endless torment upon the king. He proceeded to attack the king's villages and holdings, using his fell power to overcome former allies. Though he might have justification for his revenge, Johan does not care who gets in his way and kills indiscriminately. Johan has gained a reputation, and his nickname, for his practice of using his gauntlets and the blood of his victims to write messages to the king.=Traits: (JA) Abhorrent, focal, notorious, power hungry, warrior=39*=Balta "The Colonel" Gremmins=Immortal Anarchist="We must have order. How else would we know which throat to cut next?"=Appearance: Balta is unshaven, has long unwashed hair, and reeks of cheap booze. He wears various garments taken from the uniforms of guards and militia members he has killed.=Roleplaying: Although he looks like a scoundrel, he speaks like a member of the nobility. He will bow to those of stature, salute officers, and pay deference to nobles-all with a hint of mockery.=Personality: He is sarcastic, flippant, and insulting. Through his razor wit and courtly charm, however, he wins the laughter and camaraderie of those not on the receiving end of his scorn.=Motivation: The only thing that seems to bring Balta joy is attacking any form of government institution.=Background: Many years ago, Balta was a colonel, loyal and true. He and his men were dispatched on a mission to retrieve a magical orb. He was promised full support from his commanders and provided a native escort to guide them through unfamiliar lands. Upon finding the orb, they were attacked. Balta quickly discerned that they had been sent on a suicide mission and that the escort was a plant. During the battle, Balta destroyed the orb, using it to bash the escort's skull in. The mystical energy of the orb entered Balta's body, granting him immortality. He died that day, and many times since. Now he hides in the wilderness attacking all forms of authority.=Traits: (PB) Humorous, occult, outdoorsman=40*=Benedetto=Spineless Conspirator="Someday they'll see that I'm just as good as they are-or even better. Just you wait and see!"=Appearance: Rail-thin from a childhood illness, he always seems to be swimming in his clothes, especially the bulkier fashions favored by the merchant princes.=Roleplaying: He is fidgety, with darting eyes and a twitchy nose.=Personality: His efforts never seem to gain Benedetto the recognition he thinks he deserves. He is easily manipulated by a smooth tongue, and though he's tired of getting pushed around, he cannot seem to muster the will to assert himself. Instead, Benedetto's silently keeping score, and intends to get his revenge against those who have discounted or used him.=Motivation: He will do whatever it takes to gain approval and respect from his family.=Background: Benedetto survived a childhood marked with illness only to be regarded by other family members as too physically frail and too mentally weak to assume a position of leadership within the merchant house. Unable to navigate the waters of commerce legitimately, he hopes to rise within the ranks of a secret society of political freethinkers. The group includes some philosophers, but mostly it's lawless rabble who hate the establishment. Once in a position of influence within the society, he plans to make a power grab for a leadership role in the family business.=Traits: (TT) Political, power hungry=41*=Octavia Blund=Bizarre Interrogator="Bloop, bloop. It's time to take a swim, my sweetie."=Appearance: Octavia is extremely heavyset. In her official duties, she favors a form-fitting military-styled uniform that seems to reveal every bulge and roll of fat. She has big, corpulent lips and her heavy-lidded eyes are set deep in her round face. She wears a silver charm in the shape of an octopus around her neck.=Roleplaying: Responsible for a merchant prince's internal house security, she uses fear, intimidation, and torture to enforce loyalty. Octavia sometimes makes bubbling noises, and her ardor is aroused during her interrogations.=Personality: Octavia delights in making people uncomfortable, causing hysterics and inciting fear. She relishes the moment after an interrogation session, when a prisoner will finally agree to cooperate rather than be subjected to another round of her mercies.=Motivation: She wants to extract secrets during interrogation, but also wants to watch prisoners squirm while satisfying her own perversions.=Background: She was raised by a coven of sea hags and ocean druids who taught her the magic needed to assume the form of other animals, including that of an octopus. She developed a colony of wererats to spy for her, which they do in the form of vermin. When Octavia wants to unhinge a prisoner, she has them stripped down and thrown into a water tank. She then jumps in and transforms into a giant octopus, whereupon she embraces them lovingly with her tentacles, leaving sucker marks all over their bodies.=Traits: (TT) Abhorrent, police, primal=42*=Oxbar Embari=Ignorant Crime Lord="Do you know who I am? You best calm down before my men gut you like a trout."=Appearance: Oxbar has a heavy brow, beady gray eyes, and a perpetual scowl. He always looks like he's ready to stab someone (which he is).=Roleplaying: Oxbar is narcissistic, petty, and wicked. He came from nothing, but believes he deserves everything; lucking into a huge fortune didn't dissuade him of that belief.=Personality: In too deep to admit that he has no clue what he's doing, Oxbar is a dangerous idiot with money and power. He's clueless, but no one will tell him that to his face.=Motivation: Everything Oxbar does, he does to preserve his pride and reputation.=Background: A year ago, Oxbar happened across a street fight between two smugglers. They killed each other, and he took their cargo-which proved to be wildly valuable. Suddenly wealthy but no less ignorant, Oxbar is a jumped-up thug who's way out of his depth. His criminal empire has all the trappings of success, but none of the substance-it's a house of cards, and Oxbar is just smart enough to know it. He masks his ignorance with brutality, but the day will soon come when his mettle is tested and he will respond in the only way he knows how. When that happens, the collateral damage will be widespread.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, criminal, power hungry, wealthy=43*=Patience Whit=Feral Gang Leader="Quit playing around. Finish him off, grab the goods, and let's get out of here."=Appearance: A young girl smudged with dirt, Patience blends in on the streets or at the textile house where she works. Her long, tangled hair and moth-eaten, oversized men's shirt constantly knock loose items to the floor as she walks. Above her left eye is a vivid scar.=Roleplaying: She is truculent and uncommunicative with anyone she doesn't trust-that is to say, anyone not in her urchin gang.=Personality: Patience is independent, responsible, and tough; she demonstrates extreme maturity for her age. However, she is also savage and merciless, with a passionate belief that might makes right.=Motivation: She is protective of her urchin gang charges. Patience wants the best she can manage for them, so she needs to grab all the power and money she can.=Background: In an urchin gang almost since she was born, Patience knows no other way of life other than their constant struggle. Under her leadership, the gang has expanded rapidly. With her steady hand, the gang has earned many things-among them numerous enemies and a reputation for ruthlessness. After another gang leader put a price on her head, Patience took a job in a textile mill to lie low and avoid suspicion. She uses her wages to supplement the gang's meager income. Viewing this new environment with the eyes of a predator, she has already begun to make future plans...=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, business, child, criminal, impoverished, laborer, leader, power hungry, primal, stealthy=44*=Mysterioso=Illusionary Enigma="Not everything is as it seems!"=Appearance: A smoky cloud reveals a nondescript figure who twirls a flowing purple cloak about himself.=Roleplaying: He is confident and larger-than-life, giving evasive answers and misdirection. He speaks with his hands, twirling them on occasion to underscore his statements. Mysterioso is rarely directly interacted with.=Personality: Mysterioso is gregarious and fun but with a honed edge from being so secretive and hunted. Wealth is simply a material gain easily lost-or easily stolen again.=Motivation: The acquisition of wealth is his primary desire, which he does by creating the legend of the Mysterioso persona. It isn't petty thievery when it's done with such style and guile!=Background: His real name is unknown, but the man who calls himself Mysterioso has a great many secrets still to unveil. The first of which is that his "magic" is anything but; he previously studied arcane magic but could not master its properties. Instead, Mysterioso is a master of illusion and, in a world so readily surrounded by "real" magic, his tricks are easily believed. Explosive powder, misdirection, doubles, and mirrors all give the illusion that Mysterioso commands true power. He has two confidants who, under penalty of death, assist with his illusions and occasionally stand in. Thus Mysterioso can be everywhere and anyone. All of this leaves the authorities confused and desperate for assistance in catching the escape artist. His plots are multi-layered and his thefts are works of art.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, magical, power hungry=45*=Reballah Irongut=Zealous Rebel="Your toils, your pains, your blood built these roads and these walls! Yet your throats are pinned under their boots! No more! Those who can create can also destroy! Death to these false overlords! Death to all who support them!"=Appearance: Large-framed and slightly overweight, Reballah keeps her hair cut short so that she can she wear wigs to disguise herself during her travels. Her disguises are many and varied, but when she is among allies, she wears a simple tunic and leggings.=Roleplaying: An opportunistic orator, her frequent speeches about how the wealthy have oppressed the workers of the region call for violence and blood.=Personality: She is completely obsessed with her cause and refuses to work within the system out of pure stubbornness.=Motivation: Reballah wants to destroy the upper class: merchants, nobles, artisans, and anyone she does not regard as being one of her own. Her preferred class of people generally includes laborers and tradesfolk, but earning her favor often seems an arbitrary matter.=Background: As a young woman, she served in the military and wanted to be a soldier. Her reluctance to take command, however, ended in her unceremonious dismissal from service. She found work as a stone carver and discovered then that she had a gift for speech-making. Fueled by hatred for authority, she is using that gift to effectively sow the seeds of rebellion.=Traits: (PB) Laborer, military, zealot=46*=Preston Wedstone=Nosy Blackmailer="Oh! Hello. What? Oh, this window? Well I just thought… Your wife? In there? Listen, I wouldn't make a big deal of this if I were you. Not unless you'd like for some of you and your wife's illegal dealings to make their way into my next play. Lovely home, by the way. I've admired it for years."=Appearance: In public, he dresses in gaudy, fashionable clothes and carries a quill and a papyrus roll. If he is out on one of his personal errands, he wears dark clothes and a black cloak and gloves.=Roleplaying: He jots down notes on anything of interest and he will ogle any women in his presence.=Personality: Curious and charming, he pries his way into other people's business and keeps records of what he learns.=Motivation: Preston writes bawdy plays and loves blackmailing others by threatening to include their personal scandals in his shows. He also likes to spy on people, especially women. It gives him a thrill and a sense of power.=Background: As a boy, he would regularly hide from his parents in order to eavesdrop on them. When he witnessed his father having an affair, he was confused and immediately confronted his father with the truth. His nervous father offered him a nice sum of silver to never speak of the matter again. High on power and with his pockets full of coins, Preston realized how much fun blackmail could be.=Traits: (PB) Entertainment, stealthy=47*=Princess Aria Kensor=Ruthless Royal="Really, brother, the people want a firm hand. If you treat them like chattel, they'll respect you the more for it."=Appearance: Aria is an attractive woman and enhances her natural beauty with cosmetics and fashionable clothes; she also uses magical enhancements if available. She is always smiling.=Roleplaying: She acts the perfect princess to her people. She always appears concerned for their needs and ensures that their demands are met as best she can.=Personality: Aria's generosity towards others is an act. She is coldhearted and simply wants what's best for herself. She has trouble keeping lovers because they feel her coldness towards them.=Motivation: She's plotting her way to the throne and doesn't care who is stepped on or killed along the way.=Background: The youngest of six children, Aria knew that her chances of holding the throne were so remote as to be impossible. Rather than be married off to a duke of a faraway fief, Aria has been plotting to get her siblings out of the way. She pretends to be close, manipulating each of them to make poor decisions that take them out of the running for the throne. Thus far, she's had one brother killed in a duel after she encouraged him to declare his love for a married duchess, and has had a sister locked in a convent after murdering a "cheating" lover who turned out to be innocent.=Traits: (WC) Abhorrent, beautiful, dilettante, political, power hungry=48*=Ophelia "The Mask" Dal-Vorn=Deformed Burglar=<Eyes narrow and a finger is thrust at you in anger>=Appearance: Her black leather armor is tight-fitting with buckles and ties secured down to prevent noise. A featureless black mask covers her face, with two slits revealing brown eyes and a golden tear.=Roleplaying: The Mask speaks rarely and appears suddenly, striking without warning. She will mime her instructions or simply use hand gestures to communicate in order to avoid using her raspy voice. A steely glare indicates she is about to strike.=Personality: Unpredictability and bold moves are the trademarks of this thief and sometimes-assassin. She never uses the same tactic twice and is loath to speak or show her face.=Motivation: The acquisition of priceless art is her passion and is always part of her crimes. When she kills, she does so only to avenge some offense or to keep her identity secure.=Background: Originally an adventurer and rogue, Ophelia was also a great admirer of beauty and art. Her obsession was magnified during a delve when an acid trap scoured her face, leaving it twisted and deformed. Now she quests for beauty to counter her own hideous visage. The acquisition of knowledge is rarely of interest unless it leads her to a hidden treasure or art. Likewise, her paranoia makes her easily take offense at any mention of her features; more than one dealer who reacted to Ophelia's face has wound up dead shortly thereafter.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, dilettante, hideous, stealthy=49*=Lady Cadronus=Hideous Shaman="Our actions. Our reactions. The elements dictate all, and they demand that you be destroyed."=Appearance: Lady Cadronus is a tall brunette with a thin, rawboned frame. Her nose and ears have been cut off, her lips torn away, and her eyes replaced with two orbs of bleached bone. She wears a robe adorned with alchemical symbols.=Roleplaying: She does not speak directly to a person, but instead seems to be addressing an audience, even though her tone is conversational.=Personality: Driven purely by the logic derived from her research of alchemy, she displays no emotion.=Motivation: She believes that study of the four elements-air, earth, fire, and water-has revealed the destiny of the universe, which begins with the destruction of mankind.=Background: Born into the nobility, Lady Cadronus quickly developed an obsession for alchemy. Though she became well known as an expert on the matter, she was never satisfied and constantly pushed the boundaries of the subject. She discovered an ancient ritual that would "bond" the caster with the very essence of the elements and finally grant her absolute mastery. Though it required disfiguring herself, she performed it eagerly. She butchered her face and replaced her own eyes with smooth shaped bone, but the power she gained dwarfs her sacrifice. She senses the world through the elements, and attacks by summoning their powers.=Traits: (PB) Academic, hideous, magical, primal, scientist=50*=Roberto Graviani=Alchemical Don Juan="Transcend mortal life and live purified as your core elements!"=Appearance: Roberto stands 5'8", with olive skin and black hair that still shows only traces of gray. He's fit as a farmer with calloused though often ink-stained hands.=Roleplaying: He's impatient with lesser men, supremely confident in his own virtues and magnetism-particularly to women. He charms the most attractive women with a practiced mix of compliments, foreign sayings, and perceptive readings.=Personality: Doctor Graviani loves a good glass of red wine and savors his food; most meetings are over a glass of wine or a meal. Several women keep assignations with him, thrilling at his practiced charms. =Motivation: Competition is eternal and Roberto hates coming in second to anyone. His peers are targets of speculation and rumor, their discoveries diminished by Graviani's telling, and their wives seduced.=Background: As a youth, his foreign heritage marked him as different, leading to taunting and fights. Now he wears his difference proudly, assigning much of his success to his ancestors and upbringing. His exotic features and relative wealth make him popular as a dinner guest-or host. Recent alchemical experimentation bore fruit; his formulae allow him to conjure elementals with the personality and lifespan of host animals-though the process consumes the animal. Human-powered elementals should work even better...=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, occult, scientist=51*=Lord-General Shira Crae=Brilliant Tactician="Our chances of taking that keep by tomorrow morning are five to one. If we wait until evening, our chances increase to eight to one."=Appearance: Shira has a mousy appearance and wears glasses, even in full armor. She looks uncomfortable in armor and wears her red, feathered hair long down her back.=Roleplaying: She is a sharp wit and loves to spit out probabilities. She's uncannily accurate and likes to tease her opponents about the futility of facing her armies.=Personality: Shira has a powerful gift, one that she's using for conquest. She is no warrior, though, and she is squeamish at the sight of blood.=Motivation: She wants to prove to herself that she can conquer anyone. It's a game to her.=Background: Shira has always loved games, especially those with minimal chance involved. As an aristocrat, she had plenty of time for such things. When her cousin took the throne, Shira offered advice on how to foil their enemies. While initially dismissive, her cousin soon learned that Shira had a knack for strategy and tactics. Shira was made lord-general of the army and she's been conquering neighboring territories ever since. Some whisper that she plans to take the throne for herself, once the odds have tipped in her favor.=Traits: (WC) Leader, military, power hungry=52*=Cassandra Merrill=Stealthy Assassin="I kill for him because he needs me to. I need nothing else."=Appearance: Cassandra has an athletic, toned body. She dresses in street clothes but always carries appropriate disguises.=Roleplaying: She has little concern for anything but her missions. She does not worry about consequences, only cleanly making the kill.=Personality: Focused and uncaring, Cassandra hides emotion in order to perform her job better, only showing it for her savior and master.=Motivation: She lives to serve the master who saved her life.=Background: Cassandra Merrill was orphaned while very young. Wandering out of the woods that her family called home, she found the main road and began walking. Encountering depraved bandits, she was saved by a nobleman who raised her and kept her safe from the world. An enterprising member of the court, and of a secret society, the nobleman sent Cassandra to a special school in a far-off country. There, she learned the arts of stealth and murder. The nobleman visited every month and treated her with kindness, forming an unbreakable bond. Unknown to Cassandra, this was part of a program meant to create perfect, completely loyal assassins for the society. When she graduated, Cassandra happily did her master's bidding and dispatched people at his request. Using a mix of disguise, wit, and stealth, Cassandra is able to infiltrate almost any institution or location. Often, she finds herself backed by the society, though she knows nothing about it.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, focal, stealthy=53*=Victoria Silk=Anarchic Prankster="I have no idea who started that fire, sir. Which of his other six houses will the lord have to live in while that one's being rebuilt?"=Appearance: Victoria has short red hair, a large nose, and rarely sits still. She carries a bag of tools and disguises.=Roleplaying: She cocks her head when she speaks, and loves to gesticulate with her hands.=Personality: Victoria has always been a joker, and it's always gotten her in trouble. She's a good person who's frustrated that only the wealthy gain wealth and only the powerful gain power. She can't see that her life is on a destructive path.=Motivation: Victoria wants to do something about the imbalance between rich and poor, weak and powerful-and to embarrass the oppressors in the process.=Background: Victoria is a prankster who can't help but take things too far. While some of her pranks are harmless, others have set buildings ablaze, caused injuries, and led to a handful of deaths. Her aim is to humiliate the powerful, and her pranks always have a social message (like when she painted the courthouse red to symbolize the blood of the innocent). She never sets out to seriously harm anyone, and she feels guilty when her pranks go awry-but not guilty enough to stop. Victoria is an acolyte in a local church. She's not religious, but she views this as the perfect cover.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, religious=54*=Kyle Lawson=Nightmare Busybody="You really ought to stop drinking so much. Someday someone's going to get hurt..."=Appearance: Though chubby and seemingly ill at ease most of the time, Kyle's smile is broad and inviting, and he dresses cleanly, if not fashionably. =Roleplaying: Kyle's always ready with a smile, a kind word, whatever help he can provide, and an attentive ear.=Personality: He's pleasant and caring. Due to severe psychosis, he believes he knows what's best for everyone around him, and that he has a duty to help them improve no matter what it takes. Experience has taught him that this works best when no one knows that he's behind their difficult learning experiences.=Motivation: Kyle wants to share his "wisdom" with everyone and teach them the lessons they need to learn.=Background: Kyle's parents were always right, and if he had just listened, they wouldn't have had to punish him so severely. Now that he's learned to be good, it's his turn to teach everyone else the way he was taught. Kyle wishes they'd just listen to him, but that doesn't work. In time he's discovered that people learn best when he arranges "accidents" that teach them the folly of their actions. Most of the time Kyle is completely delusional about himself, but he has dark moments when he realizes that his parents were monsters and he's no better; these moments are incredibly dangerous to those around him.=Traits: (MN) Abhorrent, genius=55*=Theressa Vorton=Scheming Poisoner="Little Victor looks worse...it's clearly time for a treatment. You do have your payment?"=Appearance: A sensible businesswoman, Theressa dresses in rich but practical maroon clothing. Her hair is drawn back and coiled in a black cap, emphasizing her pale skin and high cheekbones.=Roleplaying: She is impatient with small talk, ignoring people when they become emotional. She affects a schoolteacher's diction, sharp and precise.=Personality: Theressa cares only for her own comfort, and manufactures crises in order to have the solution in hand. That some are too stupid or poor to buy her services doesn't disturb her.=Motivation: This is the quickest, surest path to wealth for her skills. People don't enjoy coming to her, but they grovel appealingly when they're short on their payment.=Background: Despite learning midwifery, Theressa was shunned for her lack of compassion. She discovered a way to imbue slivers of stone with a poison that leaks out into water slowly. After developing a mastery of the antidote, Theressa packed up and headed to a larger city, leaving a few splinters of poison behind in the stream for spite. After establishing her practice in a city, she slips poison into the well, where the dilute doses sicken children first. She sells her medicine at a good profit, draining families of their savings and watching others die. Then she packs up her cure, journeys to a new city, and poisons its well.=Traits: (SM) Abhorrent, business, magical, medic=56*=Agnor Orsh=Philosophical Hunter="Do not be misled by my fine clothes and extensive trappings, for I have hunted the wolves in the wastelands, and learned their secrets as the light of their eyes flickered out of existence by my hands."=Appearance: Agnor is handsome and well groomed. He wears the finest clothes over his powerful frame. His hands are thick and bear scars that a man of his position doesn't often have.=Roleplaying: He is calm and well-spoken unless provoked. Then he becomes aggressive, locking eyes with his quarry.=Personality: At the center of his very nature, Agnor is quite philosophical and enjoys discussions on the nature of living beings. He believes that one can only truly understand a living creature when it dies, when its last moments reveal its true nature. =Motivation: Agnor has a desire to learn about all types of people and creatures through their deaths. He kills simply to experience their true natures. Wealth and power hold no sway over him.=Background: Agnor was born to a wealthy family of merchants. He attended the finest schools and developed a passion for the study of philosophy. He used his family's wealth and their trade routes to experience the world. While traveling in the wastelands he came upon a tribe of hunters and became enthralled with their belief in experiencing creatures through their deaths. Now he travels the world searching for unique individuals and creatures to know, and, eventually, to kill. =Traits: (PV) Primal, scholar, wealthy=57*=Edwardo de Castille=Vindictive Heir="Now you will understand my pain."=Appearance: His bright blue eyes shine under darkened lids. Worry lines crease his young face and an impeccably manicured short beard already shows flecks of gray. A gleaming rapier hangs from his side.=Roleplaying: His thick accent cannot be hidden and Edwardo energetically speaks with his hands. He points as if seeking to place the blame on others.=Personality: Edwardo carries a legacy of pain. He is passionate about his cause but extremely careful. His plans include multiple escapes or diversions.=Motivation: The restoration of his family's name is his primary goal, but many smaller goals run parallel to or feed into this. Death is too good for those responsible. Nothing will dissuade him, and woe to those that would seek to interfere.=Background: Centuries ago the proud lineage of de Castille was defamed through acts of heresy and treachery. All were put to death…or so it was believed. Secretly the line has lived on, and the sins of the past passed down to son after son. Only lately have the noble houses of the past become complacent, and Edwardo now seeks to clear the family name. It is not enough to kill those who implicated his family: Edwardo seeks to make them suffer as his family has suffered, destroying their houses and their lives. The lackeys and adventurers that get in the way are necessary casualties in the war to reclaim his honor.=Traits: (DM) Impoverished, royalty, zealot=58*=Lydila the Darksayer=Mysterious Cult Leader="These signs are most disturbing; the dark ones are at unrest. All we can do is make more sacrifices. Bring me ten more."=Appearance: Lydila is a pale, thin woman with straight red hair. She is middle aged, with small wrinkles showing around eyes supported by dark circles. She wears long robes, and prefers a hood.=Roleplaying: All of Lydila's words are heavy. She breathes deep and speaks slowly, and peppers her responses to most things with phrases about the unrest of the dark gods.=Personality: She is a pessimist, and rarely sees anything positive around her. Things that are truly positive are just delaying the inevitable darkness that will consume everything. She sees the worst in all signs. =Motivation: Lydila believes that her destiny lies in the hands of the dark gods. She seeks their guidance in all things; seeing signs in everything. She will do anything to please her gods; which, filtered through her pessimism, is always something horrid. =Background: No one knows where the Darksayer came from. She appeared in the city one day citing ill omens of the dark gods and displaying powers that were a gift from them. She shared her powers with a small group and began to teach them the signs. That group formed into a small cult that now follows Lydila without question. They have committed numerous atrocities at her command to please the dark gods.=Traits: (PV) Leader, mysterious, occult=59*=Onias of Gartwood=Manipulated General="If we press the attack a third time, I'm sure we'll succeed. What do you think, Jaspir?"=Appearance: With close-set eyes, ruddy cheeks, and a high forehead, Onias reminds one of an eggplant with a face. He wears ostentatious armor bedecked with medals.=Roleplaying: Onias never makes a statement without his eyes darting towards his advisor, Jaspir, seeking approval. Everything he says sounds like a pronouncement.=Personality: Raised on dreams of one day being a storied general, Onias is blind to the fact that, despite the trappings, he isn't one. Bereft of all common sense, he is easily swayed to morally questionable (or reprehensible) actions by Jaspir or anyone with a swift tongue.=Motivation: Onias wants to be the greatest general who ever lived, and he'll willfully ignore evidence that suggests he's not going to succeed.=Background: A scion of the Gartwood line, Onias was convinced by his closest lieutenant, Jaspir Usiel, that he'd make an excellent military commander. The cunning Jaspir had long planned to use the pompous dimwit to his own ends. Impressionable, vain, and enamored with Jaspir's knowledge of war, Onias has embraced his lieutenant's counsel without question. Manipulated by Jaspir, Onias has ridden down peasants (rebels), enforced punishingly high taxes (to fund the great war), and generally made life miserable for the locals-all while certain that he's doing the right thing. Thanks to Jaspir, Onias comes off as an accomplished commander in his own right, blinding him with pride.=Traits: (MR) Leader, military, royalty, warrior=60*=Julie Adon=Brainwashing Nurse="Take your medicine. It'll make everything all better."=Appearance: She is shapely, attractive and dresses and accessorizes well. Though she pretends it's accidental, her dress and body language are provocative and suggestive.=Roleplaying: Julie acts vacuous and fawns coquettishly over those she dupes, but is vicious and biting when dealing with anyone she doesn't have a need for.=Personality: Manipulative and conniving, Julie thinks that she's entitled to whatever she can trick people into giving her.=Motivation: She wants to live in the lap of luxury, and for that she needs lots of money, expensive presents, and doting flunkies.=Background: Julie works as a nurse at a large infirmary. There she is able to use her natural charms, addictive will-sapping drugs, and enchantments to enslave wealthy patients. Once in her thrall, she uses her influence to solicit gifts and favors from them. By bringing a large enough group of slaves under her control, she hopes to retire with everything she ever wanted at her fingertips. More than one family has already been broken up by her manipulations, and even those who resist her wiles are often subject to blackmail. Julie keeps a large number of mesmerized slaves to defend her home and perform menial tasks.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, humorous, medic, wealthy=61*=Comtesse Adelta Vintronus=Seductive Immortal="I feel that I've really captured your likeness. <licks lips>"=Appearance: Wearing layers of skirts, a boned bodice and generous makeup, her strawberry blond hair pulled up behind her, Comtesse Vintronus glides with exuberance and grace, ever smiling.=Roleplaying: She speaks in vivid terms using color, texture, and artistic expressions, describing everything as if explaining a painting. She is disarmingly charming and seemingly harmless.=Personality: She is adept at playing people like a musical instrument via flattery, and she engenders a sense of calmness. She yields points to make gains in other areas and seems remarkably well informed.=Motivation: The acquisition of wealth and power-along with the food she requires-drive the comtesse to her sadistic ends.=Background: No records show it, but Comtesse Vintronus is not of noble birth; she was born generations before the first Vintronus. In truth, the "comtesse" has lived for hundreds of years via her nefarious ability to sap the life out of her victims. A skilled artist, she paints her targets with an unusual clarity using magical pigments. This, in turn, binds their life force to her so that she may slowly feed on them, absorbing her victim's knowledge and vitality. She prefers to have many concurrent victims so as to extend the process, but also has drained husks in her dungeon that she's painted overnight when she rapidly required sustenance. Her manor is adorned with hundreds of stunningly lifelike portraits.=Traits: (DM) Ancient, artist, magical, royalty, wealthy=62*=Skellos the Cruel=Driven Necromancer="You have failed me for the first and last time. Your animated corpse will do a better job..."=Appearance: A skeletal older man, he wears heavy black robes.=Roleplaying: Driven by his quest, he callously removes any obstacles in his path.=Personality: Skellos has no real personality. Everything revolves around his goal.=Motivation: His quest is to uncover the secrets and power of a distant past.=Background: Skellos was the brilliant student of an eccentric wizard who lived far from civilization. Because help was impossible to find in his isolated locale, his master dabbled in necromancy, using skeletons as servants. Although his master tried to interest him in other disciplines, Skellos took to necromancy like a corpse to dirt. Once Skellos felt he had learned all his master had to teach him, he killed the wizard and reanimated his corpse to keep as a slave. In reading through his former master's hidden scrolls, he discovered hints that a great necromancer once ruled much of the ancient world. Ever since then, his life's goal has been to recreate or discover the source of the ancient necromancer's power.=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, magical, occult, power hungry=63*=Burit Verdum, ("The Dark Prince")=Vengeful Scion="Do not beg. You only sully our family name. You chose your side, and you thought you won. Know that you will not be going alone to the afterlife. There is more of our family to come." =Appearance: Burit is tall, with rippling muscles. He has a square head, and doesn't appear to have a neck. He has a groomed beard and shoulder-length hair. His armor is rusted, and his cape is tattered.=Roleplaying: Burit stands straight, with his chin up, and looks everyone in the eye. He breathes deeply and speaks slowly.=Personality: He is a very proud man, and takes neither charity nor help from anyone. Though he maintains courtly manners in any setting, he believes might makes right and will strike out for even the smallest indiscretion.=Motivation: Pride has prevented him from walking away from his fallen kingdom. He burns with the need to take revenge upon the family that exiled him. =Background: Prince Verdum was the son of a vile king who ruled the land in terror. Burit was raised to use force to get what he wanted. Eventually, other members of the royal family rose up, ousted the king, exiled Burit, and ushered in a more just and peaceful era. Burit refused to relinquish his father's kingdom and began to wage a terror spree upon the new rulers and their allies. He slaughters his relatives with a cold, brutal efficiency. =Traits: (PV) Impoverished, royalty, warrior=64*=Gaspar Tormogdian=Shrewd Theater Owner="Welcome, welcome one and all! Are you ready to be entertained? Then stamp your feet and clap your hands for the finest damn show in town!"=Appearance: He's balding, with a great handlebar mustache, and often wears a vest embroidered with brightly colored threads. There is a large, garish ring on every finger of his left hand.=Roleplaying: Gaspar commands a room with his booming stage voice. In dealing with his employees, he's gregarious, his harder edge kept in check just below the surface. When provoked, he can let loose with a thunderous, blustering tirade.=Personality: As the shrewd owner of a theater and tavern, he will lure performers to his venue with the promise of a big payout then pad his own wallet at the expense of their dignity. Though other operators are more ruthless, he's got street smarts that are rarely outmatched.=Motivation: He's not interested in art, but in producing outrageous shows that draw the biggest crowds and make him the most money.=Background: As a wandering thespian, Gaspar tired of being a starving artist and always thought he could do a better job of managing the company. So with partners, he bought a tavern and opened a theater. He finds time each night to plot and scheme while smoking and drinking with those partners. He knows that to get a royal charter he may have to tone down the violence and bawdiness of his shows.=Traits: (TT) Business, entertainment, notorious=65*=Father William Carson=Demon-Ridden Monk="What possible argument could there be for us to deny ourselves pleasure?"=Appearance: Father Carson has long silken hair and piercing blue eyes. He dresses simply in flowing robes, and a lascivious smile always adorns his face.=Roleplaying: He has little respect for personal space, inappropriately touches people he's not familiar with, and is prone to lecherous stares, often making those around him very uncomfortable.=Personality: Possessed by a lustful demon and driven to hedonism, Father Carson is sly and crafty, using false logic, twisting religious teachings, and applying base animal magnetism to get others to lower their guard against his seduction.=Motivation: Consumed by infernal lusts, Father Carson wants to uses his influence not only to satiate his desires, but also to corrupt the innocent into debauchery. He hopes to use his position as the head of an institute of learning to begin a program of advancement of immoral thought and behaviors in society.=Background: As the head of a scholarly monastery, Father Carson was able to pursue any avenues of research he wished. Unfortunately, his research into demons allowed one to possess him. His monastery, once a famous center of learning, is now known for the delectations practiced within.=Traits: (MN) Academic, charming, notorious=66*=Telasha Mel'seurat=Possessed Bungler="I'm the Queen of Darkness! Fear my unholy legions! Wait-where did my army go?"=Appearance: Beneath her golden skull mask and spiked leather robes, Telasha is a mousy woman who looks every inch the milquetoast that she is.=Roleplaying: Under the amulet's control, Telasha is over-the-top evil: villainous laughter, grandiose pronouncements of doom-the whole nine yards.=Personality: The "real" Telasha was born to wealthy merchants and never wanted for anything. She also never learned to think for herself, leaving her mind vulnerable.=Motivation: Telasha wants to crush the world under her bladed boots, and enthusiastically embraces evil. The amulet controlling her wants to get her killed, freeing it to find a master more competent and capable of accessing the depth of its power.=Background: A year ago, Telasha found an intelligent, evil amulet of immense power-and it couldn't be less happy with its master. The amulet warped Telasha's mind easily enough, but soon found she possessed far more wealth than sense. None of Telasha's Sinister Master Plans have ever worked out; she always bungles things, expending part of the amulet's strength in the process. It's focused on goading her to think bigger in the hopes that her next plan will get her killed. Unfortunately, given the enormity of the amulet's power and Telasha's resources, her plots still claim lives-the next one could kill thousands even if it fails.=Traits: (MR) Focal, humorous, magical, occult, wealthy=67*=Lord Silus Renzler=Faith-Filled Leader="I only wish to see my people flourish."=Appearance: The dark hair around his face is clean and cropped short.=Roleplaying: Lord Renzler does what is necessary, regardless of the consequences. He rarely budges once he has set his path.=Personality: Renzler has made himself calculating and cold to pursue his mission.=Motivation: He believes his religious goal is to find his people a new land.=Background: The majority of Lord Renzler's people were wiped out over 50 years ago because of their country's strategic position between two larger nations. Many fled, succumbed to plague, or were treated cruelly because of their distinctive appearance and dress in foreign lands. When Renzler was young, he visited the remains of his family's castle, and there he saw the goddess of his people. Being told that he would one day lead his people to glory, Renzler took to his mission with furor. When his father died and left him the title, he began to call back his scattered people. Building a small army, he started taking back territory that once belonged to his kingdom. He has made deals with dark forces in order to gain the power he needs to overcome his country's enemies. Renzler will do much to see his people thrive, and he will make many devil's bargains to acquire that which he needs to wage his wars and restore his kingdom, but there are lines that he will not cross unless pushed.=Traits: (JA) Leader, magical, religious, royalty=68*=Sedra Kalhal=Elegant Assassin="Did you not receive my letter? You did. You doubled your guards, and yet you took me to your chambers. It is a common mistake and one that will cost you your life."=Appearance: Elegant and beautiful, she has dark skin and dark flowing hair. She stands straight, and walks with a calm gait. Her clothes will vary, but she prefers lighter cloth and the color red.=Roleplaying: She is calm and confident in all situations. She always has the right comment to say. She never shows fear.=Personality: She is confident no matter what trouble she encounters. Under her poised exterior is a woman with a passion for her work-assassination. =Motivation: Sedra is driven by her commitment to her guild, and is on the fast track to being the guild master. She dreams of the day when she fulfills her mother's wish and leads the guild. =Background: Sedra is the daughter of the former head of the assassins' guild. She was raised by her mother to one day take her place. Before that could occur, fellow assassins killed her mother, and Sedra was forced to the lowest rank within the guild. Never faltering, Sedra became an adept killer, and now has become bolder as she often alerts her targets to their imminent deaths beforehand. She is best known for her ability to exit a location without a trace.=Traits: (PV) Criminal, stealthy, zealot=69*=Professor Hilda von Tegelmanner=Double-Crossing Ghost="Und so you see, the spirits they remain here, ja? Und they have something they must do, but that something might haf already been done, ja? So they are stuck in this loop of how-you-say, something-doing, ja?"=Appearance: Frumpy and plain-looking, she wears sensible but out-of-date clothes.=Roleplaying: Professor von Tegelmanner speaks in a strong accent, and tends towards long-winded lectures on tangential subjects.=Personality: Although very gregarious, she's also quite nerdy and academic.=Motivation: She is bound to hire and betray adventurers.=Background: Hilda was a professor of the supernatural, specializing in hauntings and ghosts. Having grown bored simply theorizing on her subject of interest, she sought an avenue to its practical application. She settled on hiring adventuring parties from a nearby tavern to guide and protect her as she visited various purportedly haunted sites. She grew too bold after a number of successful trips, however, and acquired the services of con artists. They abandoned her deep within a haunted cave, taking her money and heading off to their next job. Hilda knew enough about hauntings to arrange her own afterlife as a ghost who would take vengeance on her betrayers. But after doing so, she herself was trapped in the cycle of betrayal and revenge, and has hired an endless stream of adventuring parties over the years only to bring them to their doom deep in the haunted cave. She is completely unaware of her metaphysical state.=Traits: (KS) Academic, eccentric, scholar=70*=Acolyte Skobb=Needy Acolyte="I heal people. Really! I healed that farmer last week who caught the plague. You know, the one who was trampled by a horse yesterday? I cured him of the plague just like I cured that old woman of her blindness. I know that she died a few days ago in a fire! So? I heal people!"=Appearance: Skobb is a scrawny youth who has such a small frame that he trips over his robes.=Roleplaying: He talks a great deal about his "calling" and expects to be treated with respect. He scratches his chest often.=Personality: A young man unsure of himself, he tries to cover up his self-doubt with bravado.=Motivation: He wants to be respected first and to help others second.=Background: Acolyte Skobb has never truly applied himself to his studies. He is the youngest and smallest of the members of his order, and he hates being treated as such. When he discovered a magical amulet that granted him healing powers, he saw his chance to win the admiration and praise of his peers. He keeps the amulet hidden beneath his tunic, and every time he uses it to heal, it causes small sores to appear on his chest. Those he heals always suffer a tragic death a few days later, but Skobb has not yet made the connection. Lately he has been having nightmares about a demon, which may be connected to the amulet.=Traits: (PB) Dilettante, mysterious, religious=71*=Leallia Bellemar=Manipulative Charmer="You may think you have won, but have only done my bidding without knowing it."=Appearance: Leallia is dangerously attractive. She has brown hair and wears a coy, devious smile. =Roleplaying: Leallia works hands-on, but often her true motives go unnoticed. She is a chameleon who molds herself into the best tool to manipulate her current target.=Personality: She is confident, cunning, mysterious, and seductive. However, Leallia's strongest personality trait is her boundless devotion to her hidden goals.=Motivation: Leallia seeks change in the world, but she keeps the true reasons hidden behind layers of obfuscation.=Background: Leallia is a manipulator, working behind the scenes or charming her way into social positions where she can bend the ear and will of the high-ranking. She is often seen on the arms of wealthy royalty or whispering in the ear of politicians. But Leallia's reach is far wider, and her resources seem near limitless. When some treachery of hers has been discovered within a realm and she has been chased out of it, she often appears elsewhere with even bigger plans. She is known to wield many magical devices, but if she is a magic user herself she keeps it well hidden. Many of her schemes revolve around the manipulation of bloodlines, and some who have crossed her speculate that she is immortal or long-lived. These might just be rumors she has seeded herself to obscure her true motives. =Traits: (JA) Charming, mysterious, power hungry, white collar=72*=Rodett Atwell=Necromancer Con Artist="I've almost got the spells right for the zombie uprising. Just a few gold and they'll leave your town alone. Act today!"=Appearance: Rodett looks seedy and greasy. Her hair is thin and dirty and she wears brightly patterned clothes which bear a myriad of strange stains.=Roleplaying: Leaning in close, Rodett always applies high-pressure sales tactics and haggles over everything. She's disposed to making outrageous claims that are difficult to disprove.=Personality: Rodett is full of energy and excitement, especially when talking about her newest plan to strike it rich.=Motivation: Though there are numerous ways she could use her sorcerous abilities to make her as wealthy as she's ever hoped for, Rodett only has the attention span for fast-paced get-rich-quick schemes.=Background: Rodett has always been a bit excitable and looked for the easy way out of everything, so when she decided that wizardry was where the big money was made, she let herself be seduced by the dark arts at the first opportunity. With new powers at her command, Rodett immediately started looking for ways to apply her new-found unholy powers to the task of lining her pockets. So far, she's been wildly unsuccessful, but that doesn't faze her one bit.=Traits: (MN) Business, eccentric, humorous, impoverished, magical=73*=Field Marshal François Gamelin Nievelle Le Petomane=Incompetent Officer="Your buttons are filthy! FILTHY! How can his highness ever expect to win a war when you filthy stupid grunts can't keep your filthy stupid buttons polished?"=Appearance: Perfectly groomed and fastidiously dressed, he wears an exasperatingly arrogant expression.=Roleplaying: Through and through, Le Petomane is a pretentious, insufferable jerk.=Personality: He's a major jerk with multiple promotions.=Motivation: He wants to run the cleanest, most attractive, and best-maintained military in the world.=Background: Some generals earn their place, while others have such well-connected families that they cannot be fired. An arrogant and incompetent general, Le Petomane is the latter. Granted a military title due strictly to an ancestor's conquests, his family's politics, and his birth order, Le Petomane has never been truly tested in combat. However, due to overwhelming numbers, competent underlings, or sheer luck, he has won enough minor engagements to maintain a reputation as a victorious commander. Utterly lacking in humility or self-awareness, he considers himself a military genius. His arrogance is such that he would rather decimate his own armies than admit to a strategic error. He is also completely unaware that his family's fortunes have been waning for some time and his future position is far from ensured. When the chips are down, his incompetence will truly shine through.=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, leader, military, royalty, wealthy=74*=Ciel Enbura=Unscrupulous Relic Hunter="The Shard of Shalazar? Yeah…you won't find that in the Caves of Ice anymore, but if you were interested in it, I can make you a good price."=Appearance: Ciel is long-legged and athletic, with long, wavy blond hair worn in an old-fashioned style. Her clothes are plain, dated, and understated.=Roleplaying: Ciel is always looking to sell something. As soon as she hears someone with a need, she will pounce on him or her with an offer. When it comes to business dealings, she always gets what she wants, by persuasion or attrition.=Personality: Her looks camouflage an aggressive nature. When she wants something, she gets it. She uses her quaint image to gain the trust of strangers.=Motivation: Ciel loves to have and sell things. She finds a rush in taking something not hers.=Background: She grew up in a remote village, raised by very traditional parents. She was kidnapped from the village as a young woman by a group of bandits. To survive, she had to learn to deal with them aggressively. After a few altercations, the bandits came to respect her and taught her many things about relics, specifically stealing and selling them. Ciel now seeks out relics, steals them, and then sells them. She's not above robbing a party who just completed a quest.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, aggressive, merchant=75*=Captain Tawyna Murr=Brutal Enforcer="This is my town. My rules."=Appearance: An imposing broadsword hangs at her side. Dented armor covers features seemingly chiseled from stone. Her light blue eyes and long blond hair give the briefest illusion of compassion.=Roleplaying: Captain Murr likes being in charge. "Accusations first, proof second" is her modus operandi. She talks loudly and with confidence, her eyes always glaring. She never smiles.=Personality: She rarely shows emotion beyond anger or disgust; her default state of being is that of quiet contemplation. She won't back down from a fight and her soldiers are deathly afraid of her and what she can do to them. She is the law.=Motivation: She wants control of the city and everyone in it.=Background: Corruption ran amok, and Tawyna embraced it, using the chaos to champion the necessity for the guard to stamp out the criminal element. Now the pendulum has swung the other way; the captain and the guard have become the criminal element. Shakedowns are the norm, as is detaining people without reason. Bribery runs rampant amongst her people and the populace lives in fear of her. The nobility ask no questions because crime is at an all-time low and their purses continue to be lined with gold. Many people would be happy to see the captain and the guard meet an unsavory fate, but none are able to stand up to them.=Traits: (DM) Leader, police, power hungry=76*=Durgo the Lucky=Short-Sighted Gang Leader="That museum gots stuff against sneaky little buggers, but they ain't countin' on ‘splosives like we gots."=Appearance: He has an athletic build, beady little eyes, and a vicious grin.=Roleplaying: His idea of conversation is intimidation using simple words, poorly spoken.=Personality: Durgo has a simple mind and enjoys simple pleasures: violence and money.=Motivation: He wants to fight his way to the top, take what he can while he's there, and get away clean.=Background: Blessed with a powerful build, catlike reflexes, and a lucky streak a mile wide, Durgo could have been successful as a laborer or a warrior. However, he's also cursed by being exceedingly violent, stupid, and greedy. He learned early on that he could intimidate his associates into just about anything, and has instigated any number of dumb and destructive capers. Most of them were committed using excessive amounts of force or some other way of maximizing collateral damage (such as a cattle stampede or burning down a city block). Though destructive, his crimes are surprisingly successful; this could be due to his amazing luck or his unorthodox and brutal approach. Durgo's reputation among the underworld is poor, but there's always new meat to tenderize, and his successful operations are lucrative enough for those who manage to survive and get away.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, criminal, notorious, warrior=77*=Nal Den=Wilderness Guardian="A mistake entering these woods. Your last."=Appearance: From a distance, Nal might be mistaken for a bear. He is towering and full framed, with powerful limbs. He wears only leather and fur, and he carries a club of polished hardwood. Tattoos of simple lines and patterns adorn his skin.=Roleplaying: Nal stands and squats; he never sits. He is always looking around, and occasionally sniffing. He rarely speaks, and when he does, he speaks in phrases, not sentences.=Personality: A quiet man, he enjoys the serenity of nature, and its cadence of sounds. What he loathes is civilization and all its cacophony: horses with armored riders, clunky wagons, or noisy adventurers looking for fortune far from home. =Motivation: Nal detests civilization and actively fights against its encroachment. Like a weed, civilization spreads and Nal believes it is his duty to cut it back.=Background: Nal was born to a circle of druids and raised to love nature and to venerate it in all ways. When he was a preteen, a group of adventurers found and attacked the circle, leaving everyone for dead. He was the sole survivor, and slowly nursed himself back to health. He never found the adventurers responsible, but he exacts his revenge on any civilized person who steps into his forest. When he is especially angry, he ventures out to destroy nearby farms. Recently he raided a small village, killing several people.=Traits: (PV) Focal, primal, outdoorsman, religious=78*=Sandra, Marchioness of Lionsbury=Scheming Princess="Our nation, in these days of crisis, deserves her best leader."=Appearance: By nature somewhat plain and heavy, Sandra is always immaculately dressed and made up. Russet hair frames a milky face; in intimate conversations, those around her breathe an intoxicating perfume.=Roleplaying: Sandra recites speeches beautifully, and knows exactly how factions and their representatives will react. She is coolly reserved until she mentally classifies you, and then treats you appropriately. She is reluctant to change her initial impression.=Personality: Sandra acts like an orchestra's conductor, cuing one faction or rival group, then prompting another until the tumult and clamor have a single theme: "Sandra is our hope."=Motivation: Her little brother isn't a bad kid, but he's not the ruler the nation needs. Sandra needs to rule and justifies her actions to herself in many ways.=Background: Long the nation's heir apparent, her brother was born after a string of miscarriages when Sandra was already 11. Sandra watched him grow up, but despite her encouragement and training, he never showed much promise. When father died, Sandra stepped up to keep things running smoothly-and came to enjoy being the power broker. Sandra has been the king's greatest supporter in public, but is ready to step up when the scandal she's designed casts her brother down. She has the first three years of reforms already planned.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, leader, royalty=79*=Rajnish Nagendra=False Guru="Ah yes, the life spirits tell me your mother will recover from her illness quite quickly. Now, be a dear, and bring me some more wine, won't you?"=Appearance: Rajnish is tall, handsome, tan, muscled, dripping with oil, and nearly naked. He spends most of his time lounging on pillows while serving girls attend his every need.=Roleplaying: The day that Rajnish does anything for himself is a rare day indeed. He barely moves, expects others to wait on him hand and foot, and spends most of his time preening and flirting confidently with every woman within range.=Personality: He excels at convincing others to do his bidding-especially women.=Motivation: All he really wants is to be waited on hand-and-foot and to be free to lounge about.=Background: Rajnish is a nobody-a twerp from a tribe that no one's ever heard of. While exploring far from home, Rajnish found himself low on supplies, tired, and hungry. He conned an old woman out of a bed, a meal, and a small purse by pretending to be a great mystic. He's been running the same scam ever since. Currently, Rajnish has set himself up as the leader of a small cult, and he encourages his cultists to recruit actively. Though he's happy with doing nothing, he occasionally puts forth the effort to secure some small reward for his followers so they don't abandon him.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, dilettante, mysterious, primal=80*=Hammill Townsend=Corrupt Theater Owner="Just sign right here, and all your worries will be over."=Appearance: A tall, thin older man with a piercing gaze, he wears exquisite but understated clothes.=Roleplaying: As a trained actor, he speaks deliberately, often pausing for effect.=Personality: Hammill is both terrified of his situation and stalwart about maintaining it.=Motivation: In order to save his soul, he must keep the contracts flooding in.=Background: An unlucky theater owner, Hammill Townsend was on the verge of bankruptcy. After a broken rope turned his classy drama into a cheap slapstick, he swore that he'd do anything to make it big. The next day, a mysterious visitor presented Hammill with a long contract and a lot of smooth talk-promising that everything would change. He signed, and his next show was the essence of dramatic perfection. The stranger returned and demanded Hammill uphold his end of the contract: deliver his clients' souls, or his own. Hammill was in league with the Devil. He desperately began signing acts from all over and the Townsend Theatre quickly became known as a discoverer of "the next big thing." As performers began dying, rumors flew of a "devil's deal." But nobody can prove a thing, and there are always new performers eagerly signing up-Hammill is far from the only one willing to risk everything for success. The only salves to his conscience are that all persons sign of their own free will and he's ready to be bound by every contract he signs. He may have no occult power, but bad things tend to happen to those investigating him.=Traits: (KS) Counselor, entertainment, notorious, wealthy=81*=Sebastian Redtail=Disguised Assassin="Salted tea is a northern abomination, agreed. The honeyed drinks of your homeland are far more to my taste."=Appearance: He's a lithe fellow with boots worn with many miles of travel, windblown brown hair, and a merchant's rich clothing. He stands a hair under six feet, and moves with unthinking precision.=Roleplaying: Sebastian studies those he trades with, commenting intelligently about jewelry styles and weaves of cloth, inferring their sources. He plays up the well-traveled merchant angle, and uses small talk to research, note local opinions, and get a lay of the land. Once he dons his mask, he lets his blade do the talking.=Personality: He always has five reasons for what he's doing, most of them concealed. He is a fervent, passionate devotee of his god, and thrills to be trusted with his god's business.=Motivation: Sebastian was indoctrinated while young and believes in his dark calling. He is a good merchant-good enough to make a substantial living at it-but his devotion to his god is true.=Background: Trained as an assassin-priest for many years, Sebastian is loyal to the sect that trained him. His father was a merchant, making it a natural cover for Sebastian as he goes about killing those who have displeased his superiors or his god. He intends to continue his dual life until he ascends to the rank of instructor at the same hidden monastery where he was trained.=Traits: (SM) Focal, merchant, religious=82*=Caine the Penultimate=Disturbed Loner="For Zane!"=Appearance: His wild gray eyes peer from behind wisps of disheveled silver hair. Caine has chipped brown teeth and his eyes dart about, taking everything in.=Roleplaying: His eyes large and wild, he rarely blinks for fear of missing something. His movements are swift and small, much like a bird or small animal avoiding detection. Caine comments about reminders of his son around him and chews on a piece of wood. Zane!=Personality: Caine isn't stupid and is constantly taking in the world around him, planning his next move, looking for plans within plans. Sadly, years of doing this have made him paranoid to an extreme.=Motivation: Caine is obsessed with preserving the memories of his son-Zane! Any change in the familiar order of his world is an affront to that.=Background: By trade a woodcrafter, Caine loved carving wooden figures for his son, Zane. Unable to carve out a decent living for his family, Caine took up adventuring. He reluctantly left his family, only to return and find that they had been killed by bandits shortly after his departure. The overwhelming guilt drove Caine mad. He now carves wood with his teeth, leaving small tokens about. He'll murder with little provocation and poison entire towns in order to prevent their children befalling the same fate as his beloved Zane. Caine schemes and prepares for the most unusual contingencies with hand-made traps.=Traits: (DM) Adventurer, crafter, zealot=83*=Bloody Jane=Bloodthirsty Pirate="I'd give you the opportunity to surrender, but that would deprive me of the fun of killing you all!"=Appearance: Jane has a wild mane of red hair barely kept in check by a bandana. She wears as little clothing as possible and has a lithe, well-toned body. She has several piercings with gold hoops, as well as the scars of many battles. She's a bit above average in height.=Roleplaying: She's aggressive and loud. She is always itching for a fight, even a friendly one.=Personality: Jane enjoys the rush of battle and is a bit masochistic. She enjoys pain and congratulates opponents who manage to rip out one of her hoops. She gets depressed when there are no potential victims on the horizon.=Motivation: She just loves to fight; being a pirate merely facilitates this.=Background: Now a pirate captain, Jane's been a pirate all her life-ever since she was "adopted" by a pirate crew when the ship on which she was traveling was sunk. She was too young to remember much about her previous life. As a pirate, Jane took naturally to wielding a blade, and she enjoys the thrill of the fight. She wears little clothing not because of the heat, but so she can better feel the warm blood of her enemies spattering against her bare skin. She leads attacks against vessels solely for the thrill of boarding and combat. She cares little for treasure.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, leader, notorious, outdoorsman, pilot, warrior=