Chapter 4: Modern="Modern" isn't a genre, but it does neatly sum up "Most RPGs that aren't either fantasy or sci-fi," and that's what it represents in Masks. These NPCs are assumed to exist in any time period from around a hundred years ago through the near future-though, like all Masks NPCs, you can easily keep the core of any modern NPC and re-skin them for use in another genre, as well.=Campaigns set in the modern era run the gamut from horror to espionage to military action, sometimes incorporating the supernatural and sometimes grounded entirely in the real world. The NPCs in this chapter run the same gamut, from an occult pusher who leads others down dark paths to a spy with a "ditzy blonde" act to a mercenary with a compassionate streak.=The 333 characters in this chapter (83 allies, 83 villains, and 167 neutrals) stand ready to confound, destroy, aid, work for, struggle against, and otherwise interact with the PCs in your campaign. They're flawed, vulnerable, strong, competent, and everything in between-just like real people.=Modern Villains=Some of the villains in this chapter cause harm directly, like the teenage psychopath who likes bloodlust and fuzzy kittens in equal measure, while others do their damage more indirectly (like the house flipper who forces people from their homes), but they all have one thing in common: Your players will love to hate them. Whether you use them in your modern campaign or drift them into another genre, that common thread-the hallmark of any really juicy villain-will remain.=668***=Hae-Won Song=Pessimistic Corporate Spy="I'm telling you, this part of the operation will go south. Something always goes wrong. So, are we prepared for when that happens?"=Appearance: Lithe and athletic, she has a no-nonsense expression. She wears conservatively cut business suits with skirts, but when on an infiltration "exercise," switches to a T-shirt, boots, and shorts with utility pouches.=Roleplaying: When she's thinking, she drums the fingers of her left hand on the table.=Personality: She is grim and serious. Other members of her team are always trying practical jokes to get her to break her expression. So far, they've not been successful. =Motivation: She is serious about serious work. Corporate espionage, when done right, leaves no room for frivolity or boasting.=Background: She received a college degree in mathematics and was a former professional athlete with a reputation for her win-at-all costs approach. She was hired as a "corporate trouble-shooter," meaning she was to manage and orchestrate operations of corporate espionage. Because her group's activities are international in scope, they engender a lot of risk. Her penchant for pinpointing the weak points of any operation have given her teams an edge in preparation. To date, no member of her team has been arrested during an infiltration of another company.=Traits: (TT) Aggressive, business, criminal, stealthy=669***=The Black Dragon (Renato Gomes)=Cunning Martial Artist="They say he cut out his own tongue so that he would not make noise. That's dedication to the craft."=Appearance: The Black Dragon is a black-haired man in his late thirties. He walks with fluid motions. When on a mission, he wears a tight black bodysuit with utility belts and other accessories strapped to it. He always covers his face.=Roleplaying: He doesn't speak, although he'll nod and shake his head to indicate "yes" and "no." Most of the time he just leaves the questioner unanswered as he leaps away with acrobatic grace.=Personality: He is a hardened mercenary with a businesslike approach to his lifestyle. Contrary to his legend he actually does hold grudges and won't stop until he's avenged a slight. =Motivation: He is a mercenary who specializes in impossible jobs, and he loves a challenge.=Background: Contrary to legend, the Black Dragon isn't mute, a ninja, or even Japanese. His real name is Renato Gomes, a Brazilian capoeira master. He's also a marksman and mercenary. Renato uses the fiction of the mute ninja to add to his mystique, throw off suspicion and command a high price. He enjoys challenging jobs and has been known to pass up a more lucrative job for a more challenging one. His appearance allows him to get close to his victim and learn his routine. He'll then become the Black Dragon and assassinate him.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, mysterious, stealthy, warrior=670***=Genevieve Blackwell =Occult Pusher="Those Wiccan rituals are not going to bring you the power you seek. If you are serious, I have a book for you, but it's going to cost you."=Appearance: Genevieve is tall and slender, with Nordic looks and long brown hair that flows down her back. She prefers long dresses that show off her figure. =Roleplaying: She walks slowly, picking up objects and looking them over casually. She talks as if she knows more than whomever she is speaking with. =Personality: Despite her good looks, Genevieve is a scary woman. Anyone who spends time with her is uncomfortable with the subtle force of her personality. =Motivation: Genevieve wishes to spread her occult beliefs by selling occult materials to those seeking mystical enlightenment.=Background: Growing up in a small cult in the Northeast, Genevieve was raised to believe in black magic and dark gods. Under the cult's tutelage, she had terrible things done to her, and she did the same to others, forming her intimidating personality. Eventually she left the cult and opened a "new age" bookstore. The bookstore is a front where she entices people into the occult with books on metaphysics, and then offers them books written by her cult on the dark gods. Then she guides her clients in a downward spiral as they perform more and more depraved acts for knowledge and power. =Traits: (PV) Abhorrent, magical, merchant, occult, power hungry =671***=Demarius al-Fahd=Courageous Nomad="On your bellies, worms, or I'll leave your intestines to cook in the sun."=Appearance: Demarius dresses in traditional nomad garb, his face and hands well-tanned from long exposure to the sun. His eyes are dark and he is lithe but strong.=Roleplaying: A warrior, Demarius has contempt for settled folks. He looks down on them from horseback, often delegating a child to translate as a sign of contempt.=Personality: Demarius is a man from another era; he has rigid beliefs about the roles of men and women. He deals only with men, sipping coffee or discussing politics for hours; women are treated with aloofness, and quickly brushed aside for a cousin to handle.=Motivation: While strange, his people have eaten better and been more successful since the film crew arrived. He uses their knowledge against them, planning more dramatic raids and sneaking past the security that they're aware of.=Background: Demarius grew up among nomads; even as a child his skills on a horse were incredible. He came to fame at 20 when his band set upon tourists and his bloodthirsty charge was caught on their cell phone cameras. He spared the tourist women, one of whom returned home to her job, convinced the network execs that nomad life would make for a great reality show, and arranged for a film crew to document their raids.=Traits: (SM) Entertainment, impoverished, leader, warrior=672***=Hans Jaeger=Corrupt Interpol Agent="Of course, Interpol will need the raw data. Because of the risk of a leak, I must have the originals, no copies. Now, bitte."=Appearance: Relaxed and smiling, Hans wears a tailored suit. Looking into his deep-set eyes, people find his odd requests entirely reasonable.=Roleplaying: Hans implies, in his faint German accent, that much more is going on behind the scenes than he can let on, but that he can be trusted.=Personality: He's confident, intense, and tightly controlled, but he enjoys the finer things in life.=Motivation: He wants himself and his family to enjoy the lifestyle he grew up with.=Background: The son of a wealthy pharmaceutical industrialist, Hans was not worried about money, so he went into police work. His natural intelligence and uncannily persuasive nature took him to the top, and he now works for Interpol. A number of years later, a class-action lawsuit over a dangerous drug revealed that his father's firm faked clinical studies, and the family fortune was gone. His father committed suicide instead of facing a criminal trial, but Hans stole a stash of untraceable gold that he had just uncovered on a major narco-terrorism bust, and managed to stay comfortably wealthy. He's burned through most of the gold, and is putting together a small but complicated international heist that will ensure that he and his family will never worry about money again.=Traits: (KS) Genius, leader, police, wealthy=673***=Theresa Candice=Celebrity Hatemonger="I'm not anti-anything. I'm pro good choices! Most people are misguided, and it takes those of us who know better to show them the proper way to live their lives. Just because you have rights, doesn't mean that you are living right!"=Appearance: A woman of middle age, she wears sensible but expensive designer clothing. She has perfectly styled red hair, and always wears a pin on her lapel that is the seal of her political organization.=Roleplaying: Although she is polite and kind in the public eye, she often comes across as a bit condescending. In private, she is a tyrant who screams to get her way.=Personality: Theresa is a prima donna who has had a good life handed to her on a silver platter. She is spoiled but doesn't realize it. She believes that she knows better than anyone else in the world about how people should live their lives.=Motivation: Pick a political or social cause; now go to the extreme of that cause in any direction. When you reach the point where other people don't have any say on the matter, stop; this is Theresa's second motivation in life. Her first motivation is herself.=Background: Her parents were wealthy celebrities, and Theresa never wanted for anything. Her talents were never that great, but her name was enough to make her famous. She got into politics out of boredom, and has just enough money and fame to be dangerous.=Traits: (PB) Famous, wealthy, zealot=674***=Oliver Paxton=Nervous Mad Scientist="Yes, I know what failure means and the previous accident was not my fault! It was that stupid assistant you saddled me with."=Appearance: Small and wiry, Oliver is balding with a crooked nose. He hunches a bit, as it makes him look less skinny and vulnerable.=Roleplaying: Oliver rubs his hands, a nervous twitch that mimics washing them. His head and eyes dart about, and he flinches easily.=Personality: Shaking like a nervous Chihuahua, Oliver continues his tireless work, seeking the most effective ways to kill through germ warfare.=Motivation: Oliver's twisted mind makes him relish the danger of working with viruses and germs, but at the same time he fears what would happen if one of his targeted viruses acted "out of scope."=Background: Oliver has never been afraid to glide past moral and legal boundaries, and his research into genetic manipulation has always been controversial. When he performed human experimentation without authorization, he was fired from the research institute and turned down for every legitimate job he applied to. He turned to synthesizing drugs to make money and came to the attention of some powerful people who wanted his skills and lack of morality for their own projects. They provided him with a false identity, enabling Oliver to work in a normal lab again, provided he works on secret, targeted viruses. Too far in to quit now, Oliver fears his dark masters but perversely loves what he creates.=Traits: (JA) Military, power hungry, scientist=675***=Winston M. Lee=Accomplished Mercenary="I've killed a lot of people. Can't say that I'm proud of it, but I ain't ashamed of it either. If you cooperate I'll make this as painless as possible. No need to be uncivilized."=Appearance: His frame is strong, but he is starting to sag a little in the shoulders and the chest. His head is as clean-shaven as his face. He wears simple fatigues and carries a pack full of top-of-the-line military-grade equipment. Most people never see past the fully automatic shotgun, though.=Roleplaying: He says little. Why bother? He's probably going to kill the other guy anyhow.=Personality: Winston can't live in the day-to-day world where a person's worth is determined purely by the size of their bank account. He needs to be in harsh jungles and scorching deserts where his ability to survive is constantly put to the test. The irony of the fact that he is paid top dollar to do this doesn't escape him.=Motivation: He will complete his mission, regardless of whether it is right or wrong.=Background: Winston served his country proudly, but after a mission went badly, he was used as a scapegoat and tossed out of the military. When he returned to the civilian world, he couldn't adjust. When a drug cartel offered him a job he took it; better to feel alive as a criminal than to slowly die as a civilian.=Traits: (PB) Criminal, military, outdoorsman, stealthy, warrior=676***=Lenique Veranzza=Miserly Terrorist="The West is frivolous and decadent. Let them choke on their billions spent on board games, stuffed animals, fashion dolls, video games, and interlocking building blocks."=Appearance: She wears pricey and smartly put together business attire, making her the best-dressed and most authoritative figure in nearly any room. She never wears sunglasses-she gets too much mileage out of her intimidating glare.=Roleplaying: She walks with a purposeful straight-line stride and makes turns with sharp military precision that always requires others to keep pace.=Personality: She is strict, buttoned up, and fierce. She promotes, fires, and demotes employees on the spot to get the results she wants.=Motivation: She considers herself a front-line soldier for the Cause. The business exists solely to bankroll the Cause. She denies herself, refusing to indulge in anything for personal pleasure.  =Background: She has always believed in the Cause. After receiving an education in the U.S. and Europe, she was planted in a struggling toy company ripe for takeover. She shortly rose to CEO, becoming notorious for offering workers low wages and poor benefits, but delivering high returns to investors. The toy company's vast distribution network enabled her to use its shipping apparatus to cover sending material aid overseas to the terrorist Cause. Now she's directing her own bonuses straight into the coffers of the Cause. Soon, she will be tapped to orchestrate an operation in the U.S. or Europe.=Traits: (TT) Criminal, wealthy, white collar=677***=Granny Mae Wilkinson=Octogenarian Crime Lord="I'm sorry dearie, but it's just bad business to let you live."=Appearance: A stereotypical grandmother, Granny Mae has long gray hair neatly tucked into a bun. She wears small, wire-rimmed glasses and her light blue eyes are surrounded by a network of wrinkles. =Roleplaying: Mae speaks softly and never raises her voice, whether she is negotiating deals with businesspeople, accepting public works awards, or ordering the death of an underling. She always first tries persuasion and bribery to get what she wants, but is prepared to be infinitely ruthless. =Personality: Intelligent and practical, Granny sees herself as a stand-up businesswoman whose generous gifts to charity and public works outweigh the occasional ugly necessity of her line of work. =Motivation: Granny Mae loves the money, fame, and power that comes with her position and has no intention of giving it up. =Background: Married to a high-ranking member of an organized crime syndicate when she was in her twenties, Mae was such a beauty her husband kept her on his arm through all of his business meetings and goings-on. By the time he died she was well versed in all aspects of the business, and used her ties and knowledge to quickly seize control from her husband's former partners. Though she runs the syndicate strictly, with conduct violations punished quickly and harshly, clear rules and a family atmosphere keep her underlings fiercely loyal.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, business, criminal, focal, leader, notorious, power hungry, wealthy=678***=Elizabeth Emalia Montgomery=Easily Distracted Psychopath="I will rip the entrails from your stomach, use your teeth as a neckla... Bunny! It's so fluffy!"=Appearance: Elizabeth is a 19-year-old girl with blond hair. She wears lacy clothing and dresses, tied together with black belts and cloth.=Roleplaying: Elizabeth has a taste for blood and gore, but a pathological desire to embrace all things cute and cuddly. She spouts the vilest of threats while scraping her two deboning knives against each other, but drops everything when she sees something stereotypically cute.=Personality: Demented and disturbed or gleefully chasing the innocent dreams of a young girl, Elizabeth pursues her two personalities without restraint. There is no middle ground between her dementias.=Motivation: Her twisted mind makes her desire the gush and flow of warm red blood, but this is at odds with a psychological twist that seeks to recapture the innocence of her youth.=Background: Orphaned by a fire when she was young, Elizabeth grew up without the kind and loving comfort of a family. She took solace in the stuffed animals and princess picture books that filled the toy chests of the various orphanages she was shuffled between. Abandonment issues and a lack of hope led to her insanity. Embracing the bloodlust, she doesn't hesitate to gleefully disembowel a victim for the slightest offense, but any cute or fuzzy thing triggers her other side, and she reverts to being an innocent girl for a moment.=Traits: (JA) Beautiful, criminal, eccentric=679***=Sebastian Sorrow=Blasé Arms-Dealer="You want the AK-47s. Fantastic guerilla weapon, of course. Reliable, no doubt. What about a nice flamethrower or some smallpox? No? Figures."=Appearance: A man in his late thirties, Sebastian has a permanent tan and five o'clock shadow. His dark blond hair is stylish. He always wears sunglasses and dresses in hand-made suits.=Roleplaying: Sebastian is always making deals. He is disappointed when a client wants something common, and elated when they want something exotic. He prefers pocket notebooks and pens to any digital implements.=Personality: He is a man who has become disenchanted with his work. Sebastian makes deals without any passion behind them. =Motivation: Sebastian would love to find the arms market he has dreamt of: the market of super villains. It would be what would break his jaded outlook.=Background: First a soldier and later a mercenary, Sebastian fought all around the world. He decided to leverage his network of contacts to get out of the business of being shot at and into the supply side of war. He imagined arms dealing as an exciting career that involved selling bio-weapons and portable nukes, only to find that everyone wants basic assault rifles. He is very good at what he does and is on the speed dial of every warlord and dictator. He likes to make house calls showing off his more exotic weapons, but so far has sold only AK-47s.=Traits: (PV) Merchant, military, notorious, wealthy=680***=Janice Hauberk=Cruel Thief="You don't want to cross me. Walk away now, before we both regret your actions."=Appearance: Janice has sharp features; icy blue eyes flash above her aquiline nose. Off the job, she usually wears simple floral dresses; during a mission, she wears a security guard's outfit, or something else deceptive.=Roleplaying: She is in control-cross her and you pay a price. It might be a simple putdown in conversation, or an anonymous tip that brings your case back onto the police's radar screen.=Personality: Precise and methodical, Janice ensures that encounters are on her terms. She punishes those who pursue her: dangerous chemicals sicken those who examine her traces, used needles discourage pursuit, and dogs are driven mad by the painfully burning powders they sniff on her trail.=Motivation: The government thought it could take away her job and pension without paying a price? A few million dollars is fair compensation.=Background: Janice moves with dangerous precision; eluding security, acquiring valuable and dangerous goods, and ghosting away. She hires the experts she needs for a job, but doesn't keep a steady team. She concentrates on seized property-stealing from police evidence rooms and hidden government storage facilities. If your campaign setting includes an Area 51, that's probably next on her list.=Traits: (SM) Adventurer, criminal, focal, stealthy=681***=Reginald Banksford=Cowardly Bomber="My bombs have killed 614 people, and I'm still a free man. No one has ever, or will ever, come close to catching me."=Appearance: A sniveling weasel of a man, Reginald has a prominent forehead, large eyes, and a crooked nose.=Roleplaying: When he taunts the police, Reginald is bold, brassy, and supremely confident. In person, he's a meek man who's afraid of his own shadow.=Personality: Reginald is a coward, though he doesn't see himself as one. He's terrified of his sins, a fear instilled in him by his parents at a young age, and he lashes out at others so as to avoid confronting the evil in his heart.=Motivation: He wants to rid the world of wickedness by killing as many sinners as possible.=Background: Reginald sees the evils of the world, its sinfulness and wretchedness, everywhere he looks. He roots out evil by sending powerful bombs through the mail, carefully timed to inflict maximum casualties either en route or at their destinations. He's been doing this for three months now, and has killed over 600 people. For his next "purging," he's aiming to double that number with a single devastating blast. A nationwide manhunt for Reginald is in full swing, but he's nothing if not careful. He's taken extensive measures to remain a mystery, and thus far the authorities have precious few clues as to his identity.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, crafter, criminal, focal, genius, notorious, zealot=682***=Gerund Archer=Unscrupulous House-Flipper="The toughest thing about a foreclosure is the wait between the issuing of an eviction and the time it takes for them to move out. It seems like it takes forever. Ha!"=Appearance: Hair slicked back, he wears an ill-fitting suit he bought off the clearance rack. His briefcase is bulging with the paperwork he needs.=Roleplaying: Before shaking hands, he'll wipe his hands-usually greasy from one thing or another-on the breast of his suit coat.=Personality: He is heartless and cruel. He has no shame for the glee he feels when he watches homeowners being displaced due to his manipulations. =Motivation: He gets his biggest kick out of finding ways to ruin or exploit the finances of people whose houses he covets for a quick flip.=Background: He originally thought flipping houses would be a good way to get rich quick with a minimum of effort on his part. But some houses needed so much investment to repair and renovate them that he wasn't getting the return he thought he deserved. Then, during the housing crisis, he hit upon the idea of forcing people from really nice homes and capitalizing on the foreclosures. That meant learning a new set of tools, exploiting people's own finances, and employing all sorts of credit agents and bankers in his schemes. Now he gets nice homes at discounts and doesn't have to fix them up before reselling at a profit.=Traits: (TT) Business, stealthy, wealthy=683***=Heather "Mack" Mackintosh=Rival Team Leader="These amateurs are like bulls in a china shop. Let them take the job and botch it, then we'll pick up the pieces when the client's really desperate."=Appearance: From her severely buzzed hair to her polished boots and confident gaze, she is the very image of professionalism.=Roleplaying: Heather's competitive nature shows in her conversation and body language.=Personality: She's deceptively sly and calculating, often looking far down the road.=Motivation: She takes great pride in being the best at what she does. =Background: Always highly competitive, Mack went to West Point and excelled, quickly moving up the ranks in communications. She repeatedly attempted to become the first female special forces soldier, and passed every test they threw at her, but still wasn't accepted because the Army wasn't ready for women in that role. She retired her commission and went into private work, putting together an excellent team of operators. They cover nearly every aspect of investigation and direct action, and have a sterling reputation and a high price tag. Many an adventuring team has run across them and come in a distant second.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, leader, military, warrior=684***=Lorenzo Lemming=Self-Righteous Hacker="If you're not ashamed of your actions, you'll never need to worry about my information."=Appearance: Lorenzo is relatively trim, with dark tousled hair, and generally wears a T-shirt from a web comic or one displaying a programming joke. He usually looks rumpled, and after 11:00 am his shirt has been stained with coffee or cheese curl dust.=Roleplaying: When Lorenzo is confident that he's right, he'll keep pushing and pushing until you agree and acknowledge his mastery of the subject. On those rare occasions when someone convinces him otherwise, he just shrugs and says, "Oh, you had privileged information," and redoubles his efforts on the next topic. In conversation he's easily distracted, running down tangents instead of sticking to the topic.=Personality: Online, Lorenzo usually has seven tabs open at a time and is running background checks, remote-activating webcams, and sifting through financial documents. =Motivation: He likes to know things and be right, and is willing to work so he's the expert. =Background: Lorenzo has always been a lover of data; when his parents got him a secondhand encyclopedia set for his tenth birthday, he was thrilled. The total control that programming gives solaced him throughout his teens; his need to be right turned away most of his friends. After stints at Microsoft and Toshiba, he has the codes and experience to get into most systems. Shadowy internet "friends" turn his stolen and compromised bits into dollars, and suggest new targets.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, business, criminal=685***=Michaela Croix=Rakish Crime Lord="I don't like to mix business with pleasure. That's why my business is pleasure. Care for a drink?"=Appearance: Cool, sultry, seductive, and absolutely stunning, Michaela looks and dresses like she just stepped out of a film noir. She wears a bob cut and bright lipstick. Michaela prefers to wear long dresses that hug her figure.=Roleplaying: She is always in control of the conversation. She never lets her guard down and any conversation quickly evolves into a seduction. Michaela always seems to know the right things to say-and where her "victim" is vulnerable.=Personality: In spite of appearances, Michaela is simply a drug lord. She cares little for those that work for her and even less for those hooked on her product. Any emotion she shows, except for self-gratification, is feigned, and any sympathy is faked.=Motivation: She enjoys making money and indulging her lusts.=Background: After Michaela became the mistress of a drug lord, she used her wiles to parlay a nightclub out of him. She learned all about the trade and her paramour's contact network, and then anonymously had him arrested. She also arranged for his assassination on his way to the courthouse. She used what she'd learned to set up her own operation and has been quite successful. Most investigators believe her to be the femme fatale of a crime lord, rather than a crime lord herself.=Traits: (WC) Beautiful, business, charming, criminal, entertainment=686***=Sammy Gervaise =Small-Time Thug="What the hell do you mean by that? I oughta break my boot off in your ass!"=Appearance: Sammy has a pinched, hatchet-shaped face and long greasy hair pulled back into a messy ponytail. He wears tight jeans, a dark turtleneck, and a dirty, scuffed-up leather jacket.=Roleplaying: Full of needless bravado, Sammy admits no fault and is quick to confront others for any real or imagined slight.=Personality: Sammy doesn't think through the consequences of his actions and he's not terribly smart. Between his limited intellect and his low opinion of his own self-worth, he's a powder keg waiting to go off.=Motivation: Driven by his impulses, Sammy's primary motivators are money and his ego.=Background: Despite what he'll tell you, Sammy is of no real consequence in the criminal world. His capers are poorly thought-out, generally fail, and net little money to speak of. His signature crime is the smash and grab, and he's not terribly good at it, getting caught fully half the time. Constantly in and out of prison, he does know quite a few other criminals, though most have no desire to work with him and Sammy himself is neither intelligent nor charismatic enough to recruit others, so Sammy remains a solo player.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, criminal, impoverished=687***=Captain Jessie Haynes=Sex Slave Transporter="You came here hoping for cheap booze, drugs, and thrills. Well you got drunk, you got high, and now's where I come in. Get on the plane and shut up, princess. It's not my fault you're too weak to get out of trouble."=Appearance: A tall woman in her thirties, she wears a flight jacket and aviator sunglasses. Her brunette hair is cut short. She has a tattoo on the back of her neck: a pair of angelic wings on either side of a smiling devil's face.=Roleplaying: She chews tobacco and will spit the juice onto the feet of people she doesn't respect.=Personality: Jessie's arrogant and rude. There is no empathy within her. People are sheep, and her job is to take some of them to slaughter.=Motivation: She struggles to keep her lenders from calling in her debts. Her gambling gets her in over her head, and she keeps taking riskier jobs because of it.=Background: Jessie learned to fly cargo planes in the military, but she was dishonorably discharged and brought up on criminal charges when it was discovered that she was smuggling contraband to and from the base where she was stationed. One of her associates agreed to help her escape if she agreed to fly "special cargo" with no questions asked. When she realized the cargo was women for the illegal sex trade, it didn't bother her at all. Money is money, after all.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, adventurer, criminal, impoverished, military, pilot=688***=Francis "Frankie" Noonan=Violent Misanthrope="Never gave a toad like me a chance, did you? Heh. Nope. Heh-heh. All the chance I need right here. Go on and scream; I like screams..."=Appearance: A thoroughly unattractive man with an intense stare, Frankie is balding, with a misshapen head, a weak chin, and uneven shoulders atop a pot belly and bowed legs.=Roleplaying: Frankie chuckles nervously and speaks in breathy phrases, with a backwoods accent.=Personality: He's a sociopath and sexual predator who doesn't have much else in his life.=Motivation: He wants to do terrible things to all the women who have ignored him.=Background: Frankie was kicked out of his trailer when his parents should have turned him in, a decision they'd regret if they ever knew the truth. Since then, he's done what he can to survive, squatting in abandoned houses, taking jobs nobody else would, even stealing and killing for money. But everything turned out fine (for him) when he found the abandoned fallout shelter by the power plant. It's plenty warm in the winter, and cool enough in the summer. The best part is that nobody can hear the screams of his victims, and their bodies can be dumped in the piles of coal that feed the plant.=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, aggressive, criminal, hideous, mysterious, outdoorsman, stealthy=689***=Nevin Blythe=Evil Mathematician="All it takes, you see, all it takes, is one tiny nudge. An explosion, a derailed train-and the whole system, you see, it falls apart."=Appearance: Nevin is a big, round man with a shiny bald head, prominent cheeks, and a crooked, unwholesome smile. He dresses only in black.=Roleplaying: Nevin says "you see" every few words in conversation, using it as a form of punctuation.=Personality: He views people as variables in an enormous, globe-spanning equation, and consequently has little in the way of morals. Because he approaches women the same way, as math problems to be solved, he's still a virgin at 34. What really drives him is curiosity. He's fascinated by chaos, and particularly by the way that a single catastrophic event can spiral out of control.=Motivation: Nevin wants to introduce delicious chaos into the world, preferably on the largest scale possible.=Background: A mathematician specializing in chaos theory, Nevin Blythe is essentially a real-world super-villain. By day, he's a high school math teacher; by night, he's an evil mastermind. He runs across a complex system that fascinates him, like a city's public transportation network, analyzes it extensively, and then introduces a single, critical variable-usually something awful, like a poison gas emitter or a bomb-into the system to see what will happen. He writes down detailed predictions beforehand, and compares his theories to the actual results to see how well he did.=Traits: (MR) Academic, eccentric, scientist=690***=Stacey Stein=Demented Killer="Let them bleed. Let them ALL bleed!"=Appearance: Her face and arms are disfigured and scarred from burns; the hair on one side of her scalp is thin and gray. Her green eyes are droopy and misshapen from many surgeries. She hunches slightly and wears a pink hoodie that she pulls up when anyone looks at her.=Roleplaying: She avoids a person's gaze and does her best to remain out of view. Her speech is a little raspy from vocal cord damage. She avoids direct conversation and interaction.=Personality: Stacy was once pretty, and her disfigurement is a deep wound upon her body and spirit from which she has never recovered. To then lose her family was more than she could bear, and she views herself as the victim, even when she exacts revenge on her unfortunate targets.=Motivation: She wants others to experience her pain and loss-particularly those with families.=Background: A war veteran and rescue pilot, Stacey was shot down in action and trapped in burning wreckage. Miraculously, she survived. She underwent years of therapy and surgery, but with minimal success. The accident placed a great strain on her marriage, and her daughter killed herself; then her husband left her. Roaming and living on her pension, Stacey works odd jobs and stalks families in her surrounding areas, disfiguring and killing them before leaving them posed in their homes. The police have no leads on the "Domestic Slasher."=Traits: (DM) Abhorrent, hideous, notorious, pilot=691***=Dahlana Myers=Noble Executive="The corn marigold is a symbol of a brighter day. May it truly bloom; then we can be free of this disease."=Appearance: She is the picture of a modern Southern belle. Her big blond (nearly white) hair is teased. She wears professional attire, usually a lace top or camisole with pullover jacket, simple earrings, and a necklace of pearls. Her look is completed with a long skirt or slacks and sensible heels.=Roleplaying: She always has a permanent marker close at hand, ready to sign her best-selling books.=Personality: She is passionate about her noble cause; she has sacrificed a great deal in her role as founder of a charitable organization. But she has a vindictive streak, too.=Motivation: All her passion and drive is channeled into her charity work.=Background: Formerly an affluent Atlanta executive for a major communications company, her female life partner was afflicted by and later killed by a disease, so she started a charitable organization to raise awareness and raise funds to enact a cure. The corn marigold became a symbol of the movement, and was soon attached to all manner of merchandising, awareness advertising, and big celebrity events. Her villainy is somewhat understandable: Mainly she desires such a laser focus on her cause that she feels rival charitable groups and critics of her methods of merchandising are undermining her work and need to be silenced. She employs legal means and savvy marketing tricks to derail or intimidate them.=Traits: (TT) Aggressive, charming, political=692***=Alison "Little Doll" Chalk=Merciless Gang Leader="Hey, mister, have you seen my doggie? I can't find him anywhere."=Appearance: Standing just 4'8" and with a child-like face, Alison is 19 but looks 14. She exaggerates this impression by wearing her blond hair in pigtails and dressing young.=Roleplaying: She enjoys casual violence, and the stronger the reaction someone has to her, the viler she becomes.=Personality: Alison is the closest thing to pure evil anyone in her circle has ever seen before. She wasn't traumatized as a child or raised in an atmosphere of violence, she's just a fundamentally fractured person-a true psychopath of the highest order. Alison pretends to be an innocent teenage girl to lure people into dropping their guard, and to keep her rivals from getting a handle on just how dangerous she really is-until it's too late.=Motivation: She wants to be feared and reviled, and to show ordinary people what the world is really like: a sick, twisted hell from which there is no escape.=Background: Alison, whose street name is Little Doll, runs the Parkwood 17 drug gang, a group notorious for their extreme intimidation measures. When her gang wants to send a message, they dismember their target-literally tearing them to pieces-and leave the resulting mess somewhere public. Before Alison came along, they were strictly a low-level operation; under her leadership, they've become prominent, feared, and successful.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, aggressive, child, criminal, leader, power hungry, warrior=693***=Sasha Martinez=Political Puppeteer="If we would do the things that need doing, instead of spending our effort shifting costs to someone else, we could enjoy a society worth having."=Appearance: Sasha stands six feet tall, gazing calmly out at the room with eyes that shift from blue to green in varying light. She wears earth tones-lots of brown, green, and gray in her wardrobe.=Roleplaying: She seeks the least combative way to make a point and get it acknowledged. She believes that conflict makes people defensive-too focused on planning the next point to listen to what's being said.=Personality: Sasha assumes that the world works as advertised: that people feel an obligation to work for their paycheck, that doing right is important. When she finds otherwise, the repercussions are subtle but terrible.=Motivation: Frustration with the status quo and a preference for indirect action drive Sasha. Her nation has problems that need to be addressed, but everyone's divided and bickering.=Background: Sasha dabbled in politics, where she found that her congressional peers listened only to money. She spearheads front groups and committees, funded by her family's deep pockets; several politicians have been ensnared by barbed donations-and blackmail, after taking illegal bribes on hidden video. Her agents vote as she dictates, and there are a lot of them. Sasha's vision of progress is coming; her companies, supported by rich subsidies, are driving rivals away. Now job seekers have to espouse her principles, or leave...=Traits: (SM) Merchant, political, wealthy, zealot=694***=Mistress Aereon=Flesh Artist="It is so nice to have someone visit. I love to host. Now, come into my gallery. What's wrong, have you not seen a flesh canvas before?"=Appearance: In her early forties, Aereon's attractive body is decorated with ritual scars. Her black hair reaches to the middle of her back. She wears outfits that have a Victorian look to them.=Roleplaying: She loves to include the sensation of touch in her communication. She is upbeat in a predatory way.=Personality: Aereon is a truly happy woman who loves to share her passion for art. She enjoys people tremendously and is delightful to be around. She sees the art in each person. =Motivation: Her next great work is what drives Aereon. While she is working on a new piece, it is all she can think about. When she finishes a project, her brain races to conceive of the next great masterpiece.=Background: Aereon was always a pleasant girl, even when she was killing small animals. In college, her double major of biology and art was thought of as eclectic. Her art started innocently enough while she was working in the morgue; she used parts of the corpses of homeless people, but she eventually discovered the limits of dead flesh. Over time she stocked her studio with a macabre combination of art supplies and surgical tools. Now, using her charming personality, she lures victims to her house to become living works of art. =Traits: (PV) Abhorrent, beautiful, criminal, crafter=695***=Dinna Mopp=Prima Donna Forger="This isn't how I normally work. What's the next change after that? And the week after?"=Appearance: Tall and athletic, with a thin severe face and sharp nose, Dinna has long black hair and ice-blue eyes.=Roleplaying: Dinna has a whiny, nasally voice and complains loudly and frequently whenever anything new or different is presented to her. She seems miserable despite current conditions, and is difficult to work with, requiring re-evaluation of rates and time frames with any unexpected change or hitch in the hope that causing a big enough fuss will make the issue go away.=Personality: Nit-picking and inflexible, Dinna is a pessimist whose lack of faith in her own abilities keeps her from taking the risks necessary to live up to her potential.=Motivation: Dinna wants to do the minimum amount of work with the fewest complications possible to get by.=Background: An extremely talented forger with the abilities and contacts to reproduce any document and have it pass nearly any scrutiny, Dinna would be able to double her rates and still have more jobs than she could handle if not for her insufferable attitude. She has always tried to do the least work for the largest payoff, and began forging to avoid real work. She started with small-time check forging, and has quickly worked her way up to big money jobs involving illegal government documents.=Traits: (MN) Criminal, eccentric, genius, humorous, notorious, white collar=696***=Dara Emmelmann=Traumatized Soldier="It took six months to get half my life back. They appreciate my skills, look me in my eye, and say thank you."=Appearance: Dara often holds her hands in front of her face, concealing the angry red welts cover the left side. Brown hair and one blue eye remain; her shapeless clothing is her attempt to draw as little attention as possible.=Roleplaying: She's ugly and hurts every time someone shudders or looks away from her ruined face. In planning she's crisp and organized, always with a slide or presentation to give you something else to look at.=Personality: In social situations Dara is quiet, drawing as little attention as possible. On a mission, she's direct, rasping out orders.=Motivation: She's very loyal to those who knew her before the accident; doing for them is like revisiting the days before her injury.=Background: Dara is extensively trained in several overlapping fields. When her unit was overrun by insurgents, a barrel exploded, and she was scarred terribly by fire and chemical burns. She was left for dead by the attackers; three days later she awoke in a hospital in terrible pain. Months of therapy restored her function, but her self-esteem never recovered. After leaving the military, she was contacted about clandestine projects. Since she can never again lead a normal life, she joined the shadowy organization-and doesn't ask many questions, just happy to have useful, distracting work again.=Traits: (SM) Dilettante, hideous, military, warrior=697***=Stanley Rykowski=Greedy Counterfeiter="That is the best television on the market. You won't find anything better, and it is worth every penny. Holy crap! Help me put this fire out!"=Appearance: Overweight and perpetually sweating, he is obviously in poor health. He wears bowling shirts with sweatpants and a large gold watch.=Roleplaying: He's constantly eating something or drinking a sugary beverage.=Personality: Stanley is oblivious by choice to anything that disturbs him. He won't acknowledge when he is wrong or has made a bad decision.=Motivation: He wants to make as much money as he possibly can, even if it means deceiving people. He doesn't do it for the money, exactly, but for the satisfaction that he gets from "maximizing" his profits.=Background: Stanley opened his electronics shop expecting to become a millionaire in record time. He didn't listen to the warnings others gave him about competition from the large retail chain nearby. Soon, he was nearly bankrupt, but while researching ways to cut costs he learned about counterfeit electronic brands. Now he is sure that millions of dollars are just going to flow into his hands. Reports that accidents often occur while his products are used are just isolated cases of user error, certainly.=Traits: (PB) Business, criminal, eccentric, merchant=698***=Taylor Feltz=Paranoid Genius="All around me I see entropy in action. What? What did you say about me? Fools!"=Appearance: He is lanky, disheveled, and slouches constantly, disarming those around him. He wears a brown sport coat that seems out of fashion and has stringy white hair that needs cutting. Pale skin and wild eyes give him a feral look.=Roleplaying: Feltz speaks in brief hushes and whispers, with occasional twitches.=Personality: He is convinced that everyone is plotting against him-staring at him, talking behind his back. Feltz trusts no one.=Motivation: He feels he bears the great burden of knowledge and genius that others cannot comprehend. It is his duty to make them all understand…or kill them if they get in the way. Feltz is convinced his methods serve the greater good.=Background: Recognized as an off-kilter genius at a very early age, he's since come completely unhinged with paranoia. At first it was his parents and sister, who he killed in cleverly faked accidents, but his scope has widened to include the world. Feltz is obsessed with the dream of social perfection and righting the social order. His machinations are far reaching and detailed-moving political boundaries, installing puppet dictators, and inciting world conflicts. Those in the employ of Feltz have a frightening mortality rate due to his unstable nature.=Traits: (DM) Academic, aggressive, criminal, genius, leader=699***=Reverend Leonard Harris=Miserly Preacher="God's attention is precious."=Appearance: Reverend Harris is tall and blond, with a bright white smile and blue eyes. He tends to wear threadbare clothing, except on Sundays.=Roleplaying: He tests his grip, smiling and pressing to emphasize that he's a real man. He's a master of the off-the-cuff homily, with quick stories that illustrate his point always at hand.=Personality: While words come easily, every penny has been hard to scrape. He's a very busy man... Unless you'd like to donate to the new church building?=Motivation: Donations have been so thin that he'll never get a chance to break ground on the new church. Every PS3 game and music download is proof that his parishioners have misplaced priorities.=Background: Leonard has long heard the call of the church; he entered seminary straight out of high school, dashing the hearts of many of his female friends. When he finished his schooling, he felt the call to help the poor get their lives in order. He regrets accepting that call. His small town professes faith, but the church is inadequate-cold in winter, steaming in summer-with no fit house for worship. He started a building fund to demonstrate disciplined saving, but his parishioners spend on frivolities instead. He's now raiding charity donations, leaving the destitute without warm clothing or food.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, charming, religious=700***=Swati Mukherjee=Cat Burglar="I have a greater claim on that ruby than they do. It and I were both born in India."=Appearance: An attractive young Indian woman in dancer's attire, she seems distracted or focused on a distant problem.=Roleplaying: She mostly ignores everyone who she feels can't help her mission, but is very friendly and outgoing to anyone she thinks can help.=Personality: Swati believes herself to be an agent of one of the Hindu deities.=Motivation: She seeks to take back the treasures that were stolen from India, and some additional loot on the side.=Background: Raised on her parents' tales of how foreigners plundered India, Swati seeks justice by recovering Indian treasures. A series of coincidences in her childhood convinced her that one or more Hindu deities supports her cause. Aided by her parents, she prepared herself by learning both eastern and western dance, gymnastics, lock-picking, computer hacking, and other skills. She moved to London at 18, and soon recovered her first item from an old colonel whose daughters she was coaching in ballet. Since then, she has recovered many gemstones and other items. The treasures are sent to her parents, who donate them to museums and charities, often receiving unofficial rewards for them. Whether she actually does have a supernatural patron, and whether it's a deity or a demon, is up to the GM, but her success has been remarkable so far.=Traits: (KS) Artist, beautiful, criminal, entertainment, magical, religious, stealthy, wealthy=701***=Jeremiah Stone=Ambitious Manipulator="I do what I do because it benefits the world. Stop thinking small; embrace the big picture."=Appearance: Jeremiah is well-groomed and epitomizes style. He wears a well-tailored suit and has a thick gray mustache, but only the smallest touch of gray in his hair.=Roleplaying: Distinguished and stately, he rarely loses his cool. His intelligence and attention to detail are evident in every action.=Personality: A visionary who sees the big picture, Jeremiah doesn't hesitate to make decisions that leave thousands homeless or spark wars that end countless lives. He understands his actions are evil, but sees them as a necessity.=Motivation: Jeremiah believes he knows how to create the best future world, and he will do whatever it takes to make that happen.=Background: Coming into power through the ranks of the mercantile world, Jeremiah quickly realized that positions of power were leverage points capable of being force multipliers for bold ideas. Desiring more than the wealth and status he already had, he began to twist and turn the business and political machines to his own ends. While many know his public side, few see his hand in the minute changes that send the price of grain skyrocketing and cause the poor to starve. Recently he has moved from subtle manipulations to more devious ends, like funding gangs and creating targeted viruses, all part of an unnoticed master plan.=Traits: (JA) Business, criminal, white collar, zealot=702***=Vincent Jefferson=Outraged Vigilante Cop="You may have escaped the law, but you haven't escaped justice. You may have fooled the judge; now let's see if you can outrun bullets."=Appearance: Vincent wears his police uniform when on duty. Off duty, he wears street clothes that help conceal his firearm; he uses a different pistol as a vigilante. Vincent keeps his hair short and has a scar on his neck from a gang bust a few years ago.=Roleplaying: He is the perfect officer on duty. Off duty he's self-righteous and holds unwavering opinions of who is guilty or innocent. A conversation that goes badly enough could end up with the other party dead after Vincent evaluates him guilty on the spot.=Personality: Vincent grew weary of criminals being set free by the justice system. He has a strong sense of justice and firmly believes that he is only killing guilty people who would otherwise get away with their crimes.=Motivation: He wants to punish the guilty.=Background: For many years, Vincent was a model officer. He eventually grew weary of seeing criminals he caught being let go on technicalities, lack of evidence, or plea bargaining, only to return to the streets and commit crimes again. The last straw came when Vincent arrested a drug dealer who took a plea bargain and then murdered the woman he blamed for turning him in. Vincent now kills those that "beat the system" in his eyes.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, police, zealot=703***=Nathaniel Titus=Callous Arcane Researcher="Where is that grimoire? I do not want to unleash this demon prematurely. Remember what happened in New Jersey?"=Appearance: Nathaniel has a peaked and worried face, but his eyes seem cold and piercing. He dresses in dark, expensive suits and can sometimes be seen wearing amulets and talismans.=Roleplaying: Nathaniel believes that knowledge is the route to ultimate power, but rarely thinks beyond the acquisition of such power. People are only tools for his use, and he will make no bones about it.=Personality: His pride is the least of his sins, and he knows it. Nathaniel shows no emotion or concern. He is callous and uncaring.=Motivation: He seeks to bend the universe to his will. Knowing what he knows, he believes that the petty concerns of normal men are beneath his search for ultimate power.=Background: Nathaniel Titus was once a priest, though any who know him find this hard to imagine. Tasked with indexing and destroying books deemed dangerous and fell, Nathaniel became seduced by the knowledge he found there. He felt that if the church saw these things as dangerous, perhaps God's power was not so absolute. Secreting away many of the books, Nathaniel built his collection and set upon a dark path before leaving the priesthood. He has built up a fortune through his demonic thralls and mind control, but does not guard himself well enough against the dangers of his misdeeds.=Traits: (JA) Abhorrent, academic, occult, religious=704***=Monica Surdi=Social Chameleon="Oh you're too kind. Yes, I traveled a bit, but it was so long ago it seems part of another lifetime."=Appearance: She has elongated, exotic features, almond-shaped eyes, and dark hair that hangs down past her shoulders. Her makeup is tasteful and she has pouty, inviting lips. She dresses in dark silks and satin gowns of the latest design with a strand of large pearls around her neck. An alluring scent follows her.=Roleplaying: Ever polite and disarming, Monica's mannerisms are without fault. She laughs politely at jokes, does not take offense, and compliments her guests. She conveys an air of refinement and elegance with a light Italian accent.=Personality: She is a cold-hearted killer who leaves a trail of broken bodies in her wake. Her personality is malleable and she finds it easy to be everything her targets needs and wants. She is a social chameleon and an emotional vampire.=Motivation: At first she killed her lovers for the perverse thrill, but now Monica finds she cannot help herself. She goes from target to target, savoring the hunt and the eventual kill.=Background: Years of assumed aliases and moving from country to country make it difficult for Monica to remember her past. Her knack for adjusting her personality also protects her, segmenting her many personalities from each other. She is every man's-or woman's-dream until the end, when she becomes their nightmare.=Traits: (DM) Beautiful, charming, wealthy=705***=Adriana Purcell=Anti-Government Survivalist="The Man doesn't want us to have fully automatic weapons, high explosives, armor-piercing ammo, any of that stuff. I have it all-and more-in my bunker."=Appearance: Only 40, Adriana looks stringy and worn out, like a late-stage methamphetamine addict. She smells like cigarette smoke.=Roleplaying: She's pissed off at everyone and everything, but especially at the government.=Personality: Adriana is a bitter, angry woman who blames the Man for her problems-and whatever isn't the system's fault sure as hell isn't hers. She's a ticking time bomb looking for an excuse to go off, and when she does it won't be pretty.=Motivation: She wants to take down the government through violent revolution.=Background: A tax cheat who was caught by a random audit, Adrian spent several years in jail. Shortly after her release, she killed a woman in a bar fight, and then spent another, longer stretch behind bars. She hates the government, and incarceration only deepened her bitterness. When she got out, she moved to a cabin in the woods, bought as many guns-legal and illegal-as she could lay her hands on, and started a militia. She's the informal leader of a 30-strong militia that wants to take down the government. Only a handful of them know what they're doing, but they're still a definite threat-and one that's remained largely off the radar.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, military, outdoorsman, political, warrior, zealot=706***=Cristobo ("The Tiger")=Passionate Jewel Thief="You think I am the Tiger? (chuckling). This is amusing. I am a businessman. I deal in semiprecious stones; that is all. The Tiger, he is 10 feet tall and steals the most prized jewels-and causes my own insurance to go up, if you must know the truth. Now, if you will excuse me, I have an appointment with a certain young lady whom I find...invigorating."=Appearance: He's purposefully nondescript, a fit small man of indeterminate age, clean-shaven with close cut dark hair. He wears suits of light brown and blue bought off the rack. When he's "working," he wears his skintight black catsuit.=Roleplaying: His calling card is a little squeaky toy in the shape of a tiger, the kind that's produced by the millions, which he leaves at the scene of the crime.=Personality: When he's planning a heist, he is passionate about every aspect and detail of the operation, all part of his desire to "get even."=Motivation: He used to steal for revenge. Now, he also does it for the thrill and the challenge.=Background: Once he was a struggling merchant, frustrated by the control the diamond cartels had over his business. Stealing signature stones satisfies his desire for revenge. He maintains his business as a front, but now owns a private island in the Caribbean from which he bases his activities and stores loot acquired by "the Tiger."=Traits: (TT) Charming, criminal, stealthy, wealthy=707***=Greta Roberts=Offensive Store Owner="Get your saggy, white, skank ass out of my store…BITCH!"=Appearance: Slightly heavy-set, she stands out with her partly shaven head: a checkerboard pattern on one side and deep violet hair on the other, parted over. Several piercings through her eyebrows, ear, chin, and septum also stand out, as does the large, studded collar around her neck. She wears a torn black T-shirt off the shoulders, revealing swirling tattoos on each arm. Her lipstick is a deep purple.=Roleplaying: Greta sneers and insults people constantly. She clearly doesn't care what people say or think about her and will wave them off or reach for the baseball bat under the counter.=Personality: She distrusts everyone and doesn't filter her thoughts. Greta will readily tell someone they're too ugly to be in her store. She's abandoned tact and has replaced it with anger at the world. Greta isn't loyal, and may refuse to cooperate simply on principle.=Motivation: She feels the world owes her something and doesn't care who gets in her way.=Background: Greta operates her own emo piercing and tattoo parlor, always on the verge of closing. It attracts a lot of street dealers and unsavory types but she has no problem keeping them in line. While nothing about her business is illegal, she attracts that type of clientele who are looking for body modification. She employs two artists to do the work in addition to herself.=Traits: (DM) Artist, business, impoverished, merchant=708***=Rajshana Guptari=Murderous Zealot="Your current pain will pave the way to a better life in your next incarnation."=Appearance: A dapper gent from India, Rajshana dresses neatly in a somber-colored tweed jacket and rumpled tie.=Roleplaying: Rajshana is soft-spoken and judgmental while remaining polite, speaking as though the faults he finds in others are universally recognized as wrong. =Personality: A deeply religious man, Rajshana believes his killings are beneficial for his victims. He has an unshakable faith, and no doubts about his actions.=Motivation: Rajshana desires to cleanse others and help them move on to a new stage of being where they will have a new chance to live a life of virtue.=Background: Late in his previously idyllic life, Rajshana's wife and his only son were killed in a horrific car accident. Convinced that he was being punished for an unknown sin, he began searching for a way to atone. Prayers, good deeds, and charity failed to assuage his guilt, so he began searching for more radical ways to lift his onus. Driven to extreme measures by madness, Rajshana hunts down those he perceives as sinners and murders them in ways that reflect their misdoings, so they may be reincarnated and have another chance at a more virtuous life. He has infected prostitutes with deadly STDs, poisoned drug dealers with overdoses of their own drugs, and cut the brakes of drunk drivers.=Traits: (MN) Criminal, zealot=709***=Ivan Drost=Extremist Vigilante ="Stop your crying. You brought this upon yourself. Do not beg, for there is one punishment for all crime. Your body will be message to all shoplifters."=Appearance: With a crew cut, a thin moustache, and Slavic features, Ivan is a tough looking man in his late forties. He is naturally muscular, with more bulk than definition. =Roleplaying: Ivan loves short cigars, which he chews more than smokes. He frequently spits out small pieces of tobacco between sentences.=Personality: He looks at all humans as some form of criminal, and he despises them all. Ivan watches everyone he sees, looking for the smallest infractions. To him, people must earn their innocence. =Motivation: He has lost all faith in the justice system, and now desires to deliver justice personally, in the most extreme manner.=Background: Ivan grew up in a poor neighborhood in a large city, witnessing all manner of crime. He enrolled in the police, and on the streets he saw the futility of trying to keep order-and the true nature of man. His television blazes with signs of the decay of morality and society. All of this has welled up in Ivan and has driven him to solve the problem personally. He has amassed an arsenal of weapons and, off-duty, now wanders the streets passing judgment. In truth, his vigilante persona is a façade; he is a pure sociopath who has graduated to serial killer.=Traits: (PV) Aggressive, police, warrior=710***=Dr. Laurie Brown=Iconoclastic Instigator="I'm not saying that people should break the law, but some acts should be decriminalized. Today's youth understands that, and it's inspiring to see them challenging the status quo! It takes bravery to get aggressive with the police and the government. Young people pushing the envelope of citizenship are so inspiring! My next television special covers that."=Appearance: She's an attractive woman who dresses in tribal clothes from various cultures, and is always seen holding a copy of her latest book.=Roleplaying: Laurie convinces people to take risks that may be harmful to themselves and others. Meanwhile, she makes plans to exploit such events by analyzing them in various media.=Personality: She is patronizing and confrontational with anyone who doubts her insights and observations. She has a natural charisma, though, that some people find exhilarating.=Motivation: Dr. Brown is not held in high regard by her peers, but she has found success selling her services as an expert to various organizations and media conglomerates.=Background: Laurie Brown always loved being the center of attention. If ever she felt ignored, she would accuse the current authority figure of being biased and unfair. This trend continued into her adult years and throughout her career. Despite a lack of strong professional credentials, a local television producer used her services as a consultant for one of his shows, and soon she left the world of serious research to become a rising celebrity "expert."=Traits: (PB) Famous, entertainment, scholar=711***=Lynn/Zoe Abigail=Conjoined Twins="We're of two minds on this." "Oh, how droll."=Appearance: Standing just over five feet tall, these conjoined twins have two arms and two legs and a shared torso. They wear a custom-tailored blouse and sweater, matching slacks, and low pumps. One head wears her golden brown hair in small curls while the other pulls hers back into a ponytail. One holds a book in her right hand, reading it, while the other talks on a cell phone.=Roleplaying: The twins are used to stares but still have little tolerance for being gawked at. They demand to be treated as individuals and any interaction that treats them as a single person or as a sideshow is met with ire.=Personality: Both Lynn and Zoe have distinct personalities. Lynn is the thinker and academic while Zoe is the more pragmatic one. They sometimes have a disagreement as to process but are accomplished at working together. Neither sees their situation as a disability.=Motivation: The twins are fascinated by the functioning of the human body, and spend their time conducting gruesome medical experiments.=Background: Each twin controls one arm and one leg. To move or use both hands they must work in concert, a skill they perfected long ago. Because each of them has their own head, personality, and desires, each is effectively a unique individual. Thus, they bring to bear two intellects and collaborative reasoning. They each have their own consort.=Traits: (DM) Abhorrent, academic, scholar=712***=Arthur Venturo=Remorseful Hitman="Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned. I've killed three people since my last confession, and only one of them deserved it."=Appearance: Arthur enjoys wearing tailored suits and Italian leather shoes. He usually keeps his hair slicked back and tied in a small ponytail. A recovered smoker, Arthur constantly chews bubble gum.=Roleplaying: He affects an exaggerated Brooklyn accent. The fact that he is overly polite makes the accent jarring. When he gets excited, Arthur's accent changes and he sounds like someone from the deep South.=Personality: He means what he says and says what he means. He's a killer, but he rationalizes this by routinely going to confession, especially if an innocent bystander was injured or killed during a contract. He also anonymously donates a good portion of his contract money to the church.=Motivation: Arthur is primarily motivated by greed. =Background: Arthur's father died before he was born. His mother remarried and moved to Alabama, where Arthur spent most of his youth. When he graduated high school, he decided to learn about his roots. He came to New York City and soon found himself immersed in the mafia there. He changed his accent to fit in and found he had a penchant for killing. He also has a healthy dose of Catholic guilt and is a regular at mass, fooling himself into thinking that confession without true sorrow washes away all sins.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, eccentric, warrior=713***=Tommy Perigueza=Chatty Thug ="Chico like you oughta buy insurance. Somebody gonna come in here and have an accident."=Appearance: A small Spanish man in his late twenties, Tommy has a dark complexion and hair, a narrow face, and wiry build. Constantly in motion, Tommy paces when he can and jiggles his leg, plays with pens, and bangs his hands when forced to be seated.=Roleplaying: If there is anything to say, relevant or not, Tommy will say it. His heavy Spanish accent makes it almost impossible to understand him most of the time. =Personality: Tommy relishes physical work. He is hyperactive, and anything that requires a great deal of thought or patience will cause him to become frustrated. =Motivation: Because of his inability to sit still or to shut up and his lack of any kind of education, crime is Tommy's only way to earn a paycheck.=Background: Tommy grew up in southern Spain and his family moved to the U.S. when he was 10 years old. Pegged as a troublemaker due to his incessant squirming, he dropped out of school as soon as he was able and started doing odd jobs for the criminal element to make money. Despite his small size, Tommy knows he has few other employment options and thus has the intensity and effectiveness of a much larger man. He is often hired as muscle, someone who does purely physical jobs where thinking (and silence) is not a necessity.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, criminal, eccentric, humorous, warrior=714***=Marcus Suelle=Abandoned Cop="Shut up! You don't know me! It's too late!"=Appearance: Marcus is a haggard man who wears gold chains around his neck, worn tennis shoes, and a faded khaki shirt and slacks. His face is worn and creased with deep worry lines. His blue eyes are sunken and his hair has receded and grayed. A gun sits in his lap.=Roleplaying: He looks down and speaks under his breath. His body language conveys defeat. He's cynical about any plan, pointing out how it won't work.=Personality: He's a beaten man who's now on the wrong side of the law. Marcus has given up and now sees his once-noble cause as futile, and himself as abandoned. He's a mixture of angry, bitter, and overcome with acceptance of his new lot in life.=Motivation: Originally Marcus was devoted to stopping crime, dedicating his life to going undercover for the cause. Months undercover turned to years and Marcus has become what he was trying to prevent. Now he seeks revenge.=Background: An undercover operative, Marcus thought he could be strong enough to resist the allure of the lifestyle. But years in the role have wiped away his dedication and left him feeling betrayed and alone. Rationalizing that he is on his own, Marcus looks out for himself. It's unknown if his mission was forgotten, but Marcus is convinced he was abandoned. He holds a deep grudge for those that left him.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, police, power hungry, stealthy=715***=Chief Alonzo Barker=Misguided Police Chief="The system is broken. Let me introduce you to my system, boy."=Appearance: Fat and perpetually flushed, with the bulbous nose of a longtime alcoholic, Chief Barker smells like onions and always has a sweat line down the back of his shirt.=Roleplaying: Justice may be blind, but Alonzo sees people for what they are: scum who flout the law in his city. He treats them accordingly.=Personality: Alonzo is a brute with a nose for department politics, a quality that has enabled him to rise to his current position. An alcoholic with a fondness for violence, he believes there's no higher calling than enforcing the law. A lifetime of drinking and watching the city go downhill has made him bitter, and having power has made him petty.=Motivation: Alonzo wants to make the city a better place-and have as much fun abusing scumbags along the way as possible.=Background: Chief Barker believes that the system is broken, so he's taken matters into his own hands. He distorts crime statistics-reporting rapes and assaults as minor misdemeanors-so his crew can work outside the system. He tells his officers "Do what you think is best" when enforcing the law (e.g. beat up suspects, toss junkies off of buildings, and burn down tenements). Unfortunately, Chief Barker's immoral approach to law enforcement has worked so far, and the brass is willing to look the other way as long as crime keeps trending downwards.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, focal, leader, notorious, police=716***=Preston Harwick=Deadly Benefactor="Do not grieve her loss, she was beneath you. Don't be mad at me, I am the one that always looks out for you. Put her body in the trunk and be a good sport about it."=Appearance: Preston is a man in his late seventies who is in incredible physical condition. He is well groomed, and has a look straight out of the late 1950s. =Roleplaying: He is always smoking a cigarette, pipe, or cigar. Preston has a slight wheeze when he speaks, and he coughs periodically.=Personality: Preston is deeply kind and generous, but to only one person. He has no consideration for anyone outside of his focus. =Motivation: He is driven to find someone to designate as his heir, but has been unsuccessful. Those to whom Preston offers his generosity eventually fail him and are discarded.=Background: Of the third generation of the Harwick line, Preston was born to wealth. As a young man, he entered the family business, married, and was eventually widowed with no heir. In his later years, consumed with the need for an heir, he ignored the signs of a degenerative neurological disorder; this has resulted in a mental imbalance. His world has become myopic as he seeks an heir. He goes to great lengths to manipulate events and control the lives of his candidates to make them worthy to receive the Harwick fortune. =Traits: (PV) Ancient, business, charming, focal=717***=Katarina Starkova=Ukranian Sun Queen="Everyone wonders the same thing-how does it happen? What makes you give up your will and decide to serve me?"=Appearance: Katarina is petite, standing only 5'2", though she often wears heels for a few inches more. Her hair is wheat-colored, and she often wears pantsuits-recent gifts from her subjects.=Roleplaying: She laughs easily and seems uneasy in the luxurious life. She jokes that she'll write about the experience for her dissertation.=Personality: She's enjoying the attention as a lark-surely everyone will wake up tomorrow and tell her it was a joke. In the meantime, the attention is very nice...=Motivation: People keep kneeling and giving her gifts; it's unexpected, amazing-and fun!=Background: Katarina grew up with a love of books and a scholar's mind. She excelled at university and soon participated in field research in Luganskaya. She came across an ancient pyramid-and emerged three days later as the heir to ancient Ukraine. Carrying a 5,500-year-old sun rod, she announced her discovery on TV-and watched, dumbfounded, as the TV personalities all fell to their knees and proclaimed her Queen Katarina, heiress of the sun. While the incident was laughed away and buried in the tabloids, everywhere she goes people convert on the spot. She's headed to Kiev to see if the politicians will kneel so easily.=Traits: (SM) Focal, magical, mysterious, royalty, scholar, zealot=718***=Nathan "The Hyena" Wallace=Calculating Hitman="<silenced gunshots>"=Appearance: Nathan is a large, toned African-American man with a clean-shaven head and a small goatee. He wears a dress shirt and dark sport coat along with slacks and soft-soled dress shoes. His Glock pistol has a long silencer on it, and he wears Italian leather gloves.=Roleplaying: Nathan's voice is a deep baritone, but he rarely speaks. He glares intensely and points to make his demands known, and doesn't engage in small talk at all.=Personality: No-nonsense and devoid of emotions, he's committed to his job and takes pride in his reputation as being tough and dependable.=Motivation: Nathan focuses on his assignment and completes it with ruthless precision. Anyone that gets in his way must be eliminated. Nathan doesn't worry about shades of gray: His task comes first, and everything else is second.=Background: A hitman-for-hire, Nathan served a long career in the military before struggling to return to normal life. The skills he employed in war were ill-suited for modern life. Quite accidentally he fell into doing quick and dirty mob hits; those led to larger, more prominent work, and his pseudonym. Now the Hyena is wanted by the FBI, Europol, and other organizations for a series of high-profile assassinations. He jealously guards his real identity and kills to keep it secret. He is an expert with firearms and demolitions.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, famous, mysterious, warrior=719***=Hiro Hireku=Proud Museum Curator="This place is a testament to culture and learning, and we must do everything we can to preserve it."=Appearance: He's middle-aged with graying hair in a business cut. He keeps his three-piece suits meticulously cleaned and pressed.=Roleplaying: His movements are precise and jerky, like a wind-up tin soldier. Every nod of his head is stiff and every step he takes is rigid.=Personality: He takes a great deal of care in how he presents himself. He is officious, courteous, and direct in his conversations. Less charitable people say he's inflexible.=Motivation: He devoted his life to becoming the museum's curator. He's proud of what he's accomplished in bringing the facility to prominence and will let nothing jeopardize the museum's standing.=Background: This was to be the golden moment of his life. But outside forces are threatening to undo his life's work-trying to, in his eyes, distort the museum's mission, fundraising, and academic achievements to their own dubious end. He has always been guided by a code of ethics, but he refuses to bend in the face of modern sensibilities and change. He will take whatever steps are necessary to preserve what he's built, even if he must break the law to do so.=Traits: (TT) Academic, leader, zealot=720***=Alyssa Yaria=Disturbed Killer="Fun in the sun! <chop> Blondes know best! <chop> We have more fun than the rest! <chop>"=Appearance: A tall, angular woman of central Asian descent, Alyssa dyes her hair platinum blond and wears star-shaped sunglasses and ‘80s band T-shirts.=Roleplaying: Alyssa chews bubble gum constantly. She lifts her sunglasses whenever she talks to someone.=Personality: She discovered the thrill of murdering people a few years ago, and has never looked back. Death is fun! Blood is even better! She's a bubbly, dramatic woman who thinks about killing in her every waking moment. A psychologist wouldn't even know where to start with her.=Motivation: Alyssa wants to chop people up, collect their blood, and dote on her ax.=Background: By day, Alyssa is a cocktail waitress; by night, she's an ax murderer who chops people up and writes lyrics from ‘80s songs in their blood at the scene of the crime. She sleeps with her lovingly polished fire ax, Margaret, on a pillow next to her, and she talks to it non-stop when she's alone. She collects a pint of blood from each of her victims, and her fridge is getting pretty full. If asked, she couldn't tell you why she does any of this-she just loves her ax, the ‘80s, blood, and the screams of the dying. Perhaps wisely, she doesn't look too closely at her life. She just has as much good, bloody fun as possible.=Traits: (MR) Laborer, warrior=721***=Drago Karpovich, MD=Closet Mad Scientist="I am reversing the polarity... There it is again; the brainwaves flicker for a few seconds. It was no anomaly; I suspect I will need more power."=Appearance: If not for his infectious laughter and self-deprecating humor, Drago's severe goatee and widow's peak would seem downright sinister.=Roleplaying: Drago makes fun of his Eastern European upbringing, often parodying a mad scientist.=Personality: He hides his research behind his reputation as a prankster.=Motivation: His research into the reanimation of dead tissue could change the world.=Background: Like many, Drago came to the States seeking opportunity. He was accepted into medical school, where long hours and huge loans paid off. During his residency, he secretly fell in love with a fellow resident, but she died in a car wreck before he could express his feelings. Unable to stop and grieve, he buried his pain deep inside. He now works at a state clinic and research facility, and has received a large grant to study the how the brain is affected by lack of oxygen. He is actually using the money to fund research into the temporary reanimation of the dead, so that loved ones can say their goodbyes. Of course, these things never work out the way they are intended...=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, charming, genius, humorous, medic, mysterious, scientist=722***=Maxwell Steinhaur=Psychopathic Brat="I want a tiger. Not some crappy zoo tiger, but a wild tiger. How much is it going to cost to go capture my own tiger in the wild? DID I ASK IF IT WAS LEGAL? NO! I ASKED HOW MUCH IT WOULD COST!"=Appearance: Maxwell is a slim athletic boy in his late teens. His blond hair is shoulder-length, and his dark eyes reflect his covetous nature. He wears stylish designer outfits made for outdoor activities.=Roleplaying: He demands that his current concerns be addressed immediately. He never waits in a line, or waits for an invitation. His two large bodyguards enable this behavior.=Personality: Maxwell is obsessed with survival experts, big game hunters, special forces troops, and anything related to combat and survival in the wild. He tries not to acknowledge his sheltered trust fund lifestyle, despite still indulging in all of the modern comforts that it provides him.=Motivation: He wants to prove that he is a tough, adventurous soul who can make it on his own.=Background: Maxwell is the youngest of nine children born to different mothers and all fathered by a multi-billionaire venture capitalist. His upbringing consisted of his parents giving him whatever he wanted so that they could quickly return to ignoring him. He is infatuated with television shows about survival experts, so Daddy agreed to finance a trip around the world for Maxwell to do whatever he wants on his own.=Traits: (PB) Adventurer, child, dilettante, eccentric, outdoorsman, wealthy=723***=Dina Hawk=Vigilante Attorney="This should be an easy case. You only have one eyewitness and she hasn't made it into the courtroom yet. She won't."=Appearance: Dina dresses like a high-powered attorney. She wears designer suits, keeps her black hair pulled back in a severe knot and has glasses perched on her nose. In short, she's rather intimidating. =Roleplaying: She rarely shows emotion unless in the courtroom. She talks circles around subjects, carefully avoiding saying anything incriminating while searching for weaknesses in her opponent. =Personality: Dina is cold and heartless. She has an urge to win at any cost and the money to make it happen. It's never occurred to her to take a vacation or follow a hobby. =Motivation: She enjoys winning and the reputation she gains from it.=Background: Dina is not only a high-powered attorney; she's also a "cleaner." She runs a secret organization that helps cover up crimes. If told about a crime before it happens, Dina can have cleaners on site to wipe up blood, eliminate fingerprints and powder marks, and erase security tapes. She also has several members of the police force working for her to further suppress evidence. When she needs wet works, she has a number of hitmen on her speed dial. Dina also acts as a consultant on how best to avoid leaving or clean up evidence.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, counselor, criminal, police, white collar=724***=Sheila McKennan=Government Embezzler="If you require that information, sir, you will need to fill out forms IR-34 through IR-39, in triplicate."=Appearance: A young blonde in her mid-twenties, Sheila always dresses neatly. She moves with precision and direction.=Roleplaying: Sheila speaks politely, firmly, and cheerfully. She tries to help others as much as possible but is always stymied by regulations and paperwork.=Personality: Once the humble civil servant she appears to be, after Sheila succumbed to the temptation to embezzle funds she was quickly consumed by greed. She now tells whatever lies are necessary to keep her secret safe.=Motivation: Sheila wants nothing more than to stay under the radar so she can keep skimming off the top.=Background: Once an honest worker, a desperate financial crisis led her to first embezzle money to get her out of the crisis. After that, it was easier and easier to skim a bit here and there from government projects that would never miss a bit of money. Now addicted to the high life her schemes finance, she carefully covers her tracks and implicates others, even though it's doubtful anyone will ever notice or investigate her crimes. Sheila jealously defends her power and position, and uses loopholes and obscure regulations to stonewall anyone who might be on her trail, laying the blame for difficulties on the bureaucratic process.=Traits: (MN) Focal, political, wealthy, white collar=725***=Sonya Carter=Criminal Has-Been="This wannabe has some high quality electronics in his house. It is an easy $10K score. Fanboy thinks I'm into him. I'll disable the alarm, and you guys get the truck ready for tonight. Gun? Oh come on! I'm sure that he doesn't have a gun!"=Appearance: Her dirty blond hair and brilliant green eyes are highlighted by her ivory smile. She has a great figure and dresses to show it off.=Roleplaying: She acts like she is in complete control of every situation, but she often makes bad decisions that endanger her plans.=Personality: Sonya is vain and seeks attention at all times, except when she is indulging her addiction. She tries to hide her addication even from the people who already know about it.=Motivation: She wants to become a pop star again, but her "big comeback" keeps falling victim to her heroin habit.=Background: Sonya had two hit singles that both went platinum quickly. She lived the high life and acquired some nasty, expensive, and destructive habits during the early years of her stardom. Though her next album was a flop and she lost the fame, she held on to the nasty habits. In order to pay for the drugs, she has developed a scam to take advantage of her wealthier fans. She gets to know them, visits their homes, and if there is anything worth stealing, she arranges a deal with the local crime boss.=Traits: (PB) Artist, beautiful, criminal, entertainment, famous=726***=Damon Sigler=Belligerent Mafia Lieutenant="They think I'm too violent to be a cop? Well, they'll see what real violence is when that precinct gets overrun."=Appearance: Damon dresses in jeans, a T-shirt, and a nice jacket. He dresses to de-emphasize his strong, muscular build. His smile doesn't have any real warmth, but it serves as a warning for when he is about to get violent.=Roleplaying: He acts casual and friendly as a way of getting past people's defenses. He isn't incredibly skilled with words, but he is good at reading people and has a working-class demeanor that helps him seem trustworthy.=Personality: Bitter about his dismissal from the force, Damon hates having his authority or methods questioned by people he feels are beneath him. He intimidates and bullies people into compliance.=Motivation: As a Mafia underboss, Damon enforces order on the criminal element. He doesn't have anything against crime, just the disorganized kind that disrupts the overall order.=Background: Damon hated letting punk criminals run rampant in the streets, and he wasn't afraid to step over the line to stop it from happening. When he was kicked out of the force, he left in a storm of anger, slamming doors and overturning desks. The local Mafia boss recognized an opportunity and sent his best man to pull Damon into the lifestyle. It didn't take much. Damon's knowledge of police procedures and ability to enforce order have proved invaluable to the family.=Traits: (JA) Aggressive, criminal, leader=727***=Skylar Adzmann=Pop Star="I just feed off the energy of my fans. I couldn't survive without it; they sustain me."=Appearance: Famous, beautiful, and sensual, she's the center of attention wherever she goes.=Roleplaying: Skylar can be a sensual pop singer one moment, but a cold-hearted businesswoman the next.=Personality: She's manipulative and downright evil, but hides it behind her public persona.=Motivation: She will do anything to continue "living off her fans."=Background: Skylar burst onto the international music scene from the back streets of Paramaribo, Suriname. As everyone knows, she's of mixed Dutch, Spanish, and indigenous heritage, and inherited the best from all her ancestors-she's gorgeous, seductive, sensual, and energetic, and brings all of that into her music. What is not known is that she believes herself to be an azeman, a South American vampire, and that she kills and drinks the blood of her adoring fans on a regular basis. Her fiercely loyal entourage buys into the myth, and they believe that they inherit some of her power. The traditional way to defeat an azeman is to give it something to count, like the straws of a broom or grains on the floor. Her entourage is meticulous in making sure nothing of the sort distracts her.=Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, artist, beautiful, entertainment, famous, focal, magical, occult, wealthy=728***=Noel "Cali" Callahan=Deviant Producer="I know you girls are all scared, but trust me, you will get used to the work. In return, you're off the street. No one is going to hurt you, at least not off-camera."=Appearance: Born of Filipino and Irish parents, Noel is a short, thin woman, with her shoulder-length hair dyed black. She is in her late twenties, with a hard look to her.=Roleplaying: Noel has no boundaries when she flirts. She enjoys doing things for shock value, especially to those who have conservative views. =Personality: She is a tragic woman whose shattered home life has damaged her self-worth, and left her seeking the worst kind of attention from men. =Motivation: Noel has a hole in her soul that she attempts to fill with money, sex, and bad relationships. =Background: A runaway from an abusive home, Noel wound up on the streets using her looks to survive as a prostitute. A mobster who took a liking to her got her off the streets, and the two started a pornographic website. Cali turned out to be quite adept at this line of work: she understands the market and is able to convince others to participate in shameful acts. Recently Cali has discovered that there are private buyers who have more exotic tastes, often illegal. She has begun to collect runaways off the streets to star in these films; for many, this will be the only film of their lives.=Traits: (PV) Abhorrent, charming, entertainment, merchant=729***=Mogo Rahane=Dutiful Torturer="Questioning the State is worse than questioning God, you disgusting worm."=Appearance: Mogo looks like a caveman, with a heavy brow ridge, deep-set eyes, and bushy black hair. There are blood stains on most of the clothes he owns.=Roleplaying: The State is never wrong, and torture is the answer to almost every question.=Personality: Not a particularly imaginative person, Mogo's creative side only comes out when he tortures people. Even other agents of the secret police get sick when they see his handiwork, and he always gets a confession (though rarely the truth). He likes hurting animals as much as people-sometimes more.=Motivation: Mogo wants to do whatever the State tells him to, to the best of his abilities and without question.=Background: Mogo is a torturer for the secret police of a dictatorial regime, and he believes that the State is the law, and the law is God. He sometimes wishes God didn't make him torture people for a living, but he knows they deserve it because the State wouldn't have imprisoned them if they didn't. Mogo isn't dull-witted, he's just incredibly set in his ways. Raised as a ward of the State, he grew to love the State like a parent; he doesn't know anything else. If the State told him to spend the rest of his life as a trash sweeper, he'd do it-but he's so good at inflicting pain, of course, that they never will.=Traits: (MR) Notorious, police=730***=Xander Drax=Scheming Real Estate Developer="I see you just bought the pizzeria on the corner… Well, it's your money I suppose. Crime is horrendous in this neighborhood. I bet you won't be open a week before your first robbery. Here's my card for when you're ready to sell."=Appearance: Average height with a thick build, Xander wears a clean, off-the-rack suit and a trilby to match. He has Mediterranean features, olive skin, and slicked-back hair. An assortment of gold chains hangs around his neck. Xander always carries a smart phone and a bottle of flavored water with him.=Roleplaying: He is a smooth talker. He's friendly and always full of advice. He also loves to talk shop and is always looking for a good deal. =Personality: Xander is very much a "look out for number one" kind of guy. He doesn't have any real friends, only those working for him or involved in his current projects. He also switches girlfriends on a regular basis. Xander enjoys showing off his wealth by purchasing things he can easily flash around.=Motivation: He wants to be wealthy and live a flashy lifestyle.=Background: Xander is a land developer. He's racked up some large debts with his overindulgent spending and overambitious projects. He's currently involved in procuring a huge score; a client is looking to build a casino in the city. He's trying to influence the property owners to sell while keeping the casino project quiet.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, business, criminal=731***=Randolph Burgher=Emotionless Criminal Mastermind="Release you after we're done? I'm sorry, but the plan calls for no hostages. In fact, there is no reason you should still be alive."=Appearance: Randolph is neat and clean; there is not a speck of dust on him. He keeps his red hair slicked back and his beard neat and clean at all times.=Roleplaying: Randolph has faith only in organization and accuracy. He pulls off most of his jobs and heists by engaging in months-long intelligence gathering operations. When in the middle of a job, Randolph won't hesitate to lose a failing component, even if that means ending a person's life.=Personality: Uncaring about others' feelings, Randolph is perpetually honest. He shows no real emotion, but one can see the constant calculations going on in his mind.=Motivation: Randolph worships accuracy and precision. He got into the high-priced theft business because he enjoys the finer things in life.=Background: Randolph grew up in a rich family where Mummy and Daddy had no time for him. Shunted from one rigorous boarding school to the next, Randolph became obsessed with status and wealth. He quickly found himself enjoying rigorous control and the ruthless mindset required to seize what he wanted. When his parent's investments went bad, Randolph realized he could engineer profit for himself. His parents became the first victims of his criminal path, but the plan ensured that Randolph avoided all blame.=Traits: (JA) Academic, criminal, focal, white collar=732***=Jennifer Braxton=Brash Jewel Thief="The only reason I haven't gotten it yet is that I haven't tried."=Appearance: Jennifer keeps her dirty blond hair short and close cropped. She is a fan of body modification, and has many tattoos and piercings. She considers these her trademarks, despite how easy they make her to pick out of a lineup.=Roleplaying: She always keeps people at arm's length; it is easier to work that way. Her movements are careful and controlled, but she bursts into action at a moment's notice. Once she has decided on a course of action, Jennifer never hesitates. She often leaves others behind.=Personality: Jennifer is brash, uncouth, and mistrustful of others. She is tough enough to survive and rarely shows any need for love and affection.=Motivation: She only cares about the art of the theft and being able to pull it off. For her, it is less about the end goal, and more about how awesome the heist will be.=Background: Jennifer ran away from her middle-class home as a teenager. Life on the street led to pick pocketing and mugging people to survive. Stealing made her feel complete, and it wasn't long before she grew bored with small jobs. She trained long and hard, learning from retired safecrackers and cat burglars until she was good enough to go solo. Jennifer makes a good recurring side villain, someone to get in the PCs' way or work for the true villain.=Traits: (JA) Artist, criminal, stealthy, wealthy=733***=His Excellency Maliq Fournier=Tin-Pot Dictator="Only the strong should survive. But a strong man with a big gun has a better chance of that, I think."=Appearance: His deep-green military-style uniform is adorned with fanciful ribbons and badges. He usually hides behind mirrored sunglasses.=Roleplaying: He is always accompanied by his pet pit bull, Petit, whom he has groomed and trained personally to be loyal and a fierce guard dog.=Personality: He is thoughtful, but about things that have no bearing on running a country or on seeing to the needs of his small nation's citizens. In fact, he is often dismissive of affairs of state, delegating them to subordinates.=Motivation: Now that he's attained and secured his power, he is satisfied to spend his days in contemplation, thinking about his place in the universe.=Background: He was a thug who killed without remorse, but one with the charisma to rally others to his cause. Once he overthrew the government, he anointed himself leader without a real title. Though he rules in an authoritarian manner, he does only enough to satisfy the masses so they will not revolt. Otherwise, he is occupied in activities of self-aggrandizement and pop psychology theories and philosophies. He also authorizes schemes intended to irritate and frustrate neighboring countries.=Traits: (TT) Military, power hungry, warrior=734***=Zora the Black Veil=Lustful Cult Leader="You have done well, my love. I see from your bruises that getting the tome did not come without pain. Now lay back and let me reward you in pleasure."=Appearance: Zora is a curvaceous woman with smooth, pale skin, and long, wavy red hair. She always wears dresses, which seem to barely cling to her, and wears a translucent black veil.=Roleplaying: Zora will slowly move near any person she finds attractive, standing closer than is polite. She plays with her hair or the fabric of her dress.=Personality: She is a woman who has strong lustful desires that she frequently indulges, at times for her pleasure and at times in the service of the dark god she worships.=Motivation: Zora desires power over others in many forms. She pursues her occult interests as a way to control larger groups of people.=Background: Appearing suddenly in the section of town favored by goths, Zora spoke about a god of lust. She began to collect a group of followers, all lovers who follow her with a fanatical devotion. With her followers, she began to lay out plans that were more ambitious. Soon her cult began to steal ancient tomes and artifacts. Then came the murders: scholars, city officials, and conservative religious leaders. She claims that she possesses rituals that will bring deeper knowledge. =Traits: (PV) Beautiful, leader, magical, mysterious, occult=735***=Jiang Liu=Handicapped Inventor="I've been weak and laughed-at all my life. Now it's my turn to be the strong one, and do the laughing!"=Appearance: A pale and skinny young Asian man, he's supported by what appears to be a homemade armored exoskeleton.=Roleplaying: His words and actions reflect his extensive education and his anger at the world.=Personality: Jiang is bitter and angry at the hand he's been dealt.=Motivation: He aims to get back at everyone who has ever laughed at him.=Background: Born with a debilitating physical condition that left him weak and unable to have a normal life, Jiang buried himself in his studies. His dream was to create an exoskeleton that would allow him to enjoy normal activities. But as he got older and missed out on the opportunities his peers had, he became more and more bitter and his thoughts turned toward revenge. His studies paid off when he was granted a full ride scholarship for mechanical, electrical, and prosthetic engineering. In the last year, his parents died unexpectedly, he lost his scholarship for ethical violations and anger-management issues, and the woman he was secretly in love with got married. With his parents' insurance money, he finally finished his exoskeleton and added a few modifications, including armor and armaments. Now, he's ready to take his revenge on the world.=Traits: (KS) Academic, crafter, criminal, genius, scientist, warrior=736***=Mina Nottingham=Poised Thief="Above all, be discreet. Be poised. The best thefts are never, EVER, discovered."=Appearance: She's crisply attired in a suit well-tailored for her slender figure. She keeps her hair cut short in a flapper style.=Roleplaying: When idle, she keeps her face serene, but unobtrusively twists the signet ring denoting her secret society allegiance.=Personality: She stays poised in most situations. She demands precision and a well-oiled execution from her henchmen.=Motivation: She operates a charitable foundation to stay close to the antiquities community and keep abreast of the latest finds, intending to obtain them for her "associates" through illicit means.=Background: Her foundation supports several museums of natural history and culture. She keeps her calm in most situations, though, as part of her cover, she will make a show of being concerned about how the foundation's money is being spent and will express disdain for the general public's ignorance of cultural exhibits. She dutifully attends galas, exhibit openings and charitable functions. Her aim is to exploit oversights in the archiving procedures of museums to steal artifacts of historical and monetary value for the secret society to which she belongs.=Traits: (TT) Criminal, leader, wealthy=737***=Melinda Thompson=Conflicted Executive="Do you ever wonder if the weapons we make are used the wrong way?"=Appearance: Smudged glasses, scuffed shoes, and a wrinkled blouse stain her professional look.=Roleplaying: Her curt replies and sharp comments border on offensive.=Personality: She is sly and plays her cards close, but the pressure is getting to her.=Motivation: Melinda's charity is more important to her than her integrity, or even her life.=Background: A career as an executive for a military supplier was turned upside-down when her aircraft was forced down in a tribal area of a Middle Eastern country. She was shocked to see the effects of the weapons her company made, and during the week they were stuck there, she decided to do something about it. On returning to her work, she began to steal from her employer. At first it was small-time theft, but she is now embezzling millions of dollars a year, which she uses to start medical clinics and schools in the area she saw. Now she's in too deep to stop, and her guilt wouldn't let her stop even if she could. Her latest step is over the edge: In return for their protection and cooperation in her charities, she has traded some of the company's experimental armaments to the kind of person who has no problems whatsoever with killing civilians. =Traits: (KS) Business, criminal, leader, wealthy, white collar=738***=Father Smith=Bandit Priest="There is no forgiveness for you here, or in the next life."=Appearance: Tall, thin, and lean, with sunken, sleep-crusted eyes, stubble, and deep wrinkles, Father Smith is unkempt and his priest's vestments are rumpled and worn.=Roleplaying: Father Smith speaks in a sharp, harsh voice. He is a man of few words and little patience. Anyone who mistakes him for a real priest and asks for help or guidance is likely to be harangued about the uselessness of faith and the foolishness of belief in God.=Personality: An angry and disillusioned man, Father Smith is bitter and his outlook on life is grim. He seems to only be living as an alternative to laying down and dying.=Motivation: Bitterly angry at the church and God, Father Smith spends all his time actively working against everything he used to support.=Background: Father Smith-the name he uses today-was a man of the cloth from a young age. He led his flock with passion and energy and stood as a moral beacon and example of faith. Despite Father Smith's years of exemplary service, when he was accused of stealing money and valuables from the church by a parishioner, he was quickly outcast. Outraged, he adopted his new identity to avoid bill collectors and deny his past and began preying on the institution that rejected him by ransacking churches and robbing high-ranking clergy.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, criminal, impoverished, religious, stealthy, zealot=739***=Felicia Sandalwood=Crossword Killer="3-down is ‘How does this worthless piece of human refuse die?' Let's find out together, shall we?"=Appearance: Now 27, Felicia still dresses like she's 17. She favors large, outlandish hats that don't match her outfits.=Roleplaying: Felicia is angry and hateful, and demonstrates her prodigious intellect at every opportunity.=Personality: Felicia is haunted by a single, defining event in her past. She constantly thinks about the day she lost the national crossword competition, stoking the fire of her hatred for male nerds of all kinds. Ironically, nerdy guys find her very approachable, which only makes her job easier.=Motivation: Felicia wants to wipe out her greatest failure by killing everyone she thinks might have been involved in "the conspiracy."=Background: Felicia is better known as the "Crossword Killer," the nation's most prolific serial murderer who's still at large. An avid crossword puzzle lover, Felicia made it to her first national crossword competition at age 17, made one huge mistake in her final match, and faded from view. She believes her "error" was the culmination of a vast conspiracy in the male-dominated crossword world-and her ego has never recovered. She became a serial killer a few years after losing the competition, and she focuses her rage on male nerds, especially crossword enthusiasts. The Crossword Killer dips a quill pen in her victims' blood and uses it to complete a crossword puzzle, which she leaves at the crime scene.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, eccentric, genius, notorious, scholar=740***=Sonja Texeira, "The Cowgirl"=Animated Bandit="Hello folks, hate to spoil your fine dinner, but a gal has to work. Please take your valuables and toss them into this bag. Don't mind this Desert Eagle; she'll stay quiet if you do what you're told."=Appearance: In her early twenties, Sonja wears her straight brown hair in a ponytail. She dresses in a southwestern style, including cowboy boots and hat, and a bandana over her face.=Roleplaying: She acts like a classic Western movie bandit, tipping her hat, saying "ma'am," and even twirling her Desert Eagle.=Personality: Sonja is a very active and bubbly person. People find her pleasant even while she's robbing them. She has trouble sitting still, or settling in any one place. =Motivation: She is a thrill seeker who does what she does for the thrill and for the money. =Background: Working in a burger joint in a poor part of Texas, Sonja was destined to get knocked up and get married. Unable to face this future, she stole all the money in the cash register, ran to the pawnshop, and got herself a gun. Shortly after, she stole a motorcycle and took off. Now she travels from town to town making bold robberies in restaurants, homes, and the occasional bank. Her crimes are well known and the news has dubbed her "The Cowgirl." So far, she has avoided killing anyone in her robberies, but that day may come.=Traits: (PV) Charming, criminal, notorious=741***=Aleksei Alexandrov=Militant Leninist="The world deserves a chance to see communism as it should be, not as strongmen corrupt it to be."=Appearance: Tall and very strong, Aleksei's build and confidence make women swoon. His dark hair has feathers of gray that only make him look more distinguished; his blue-gray eyes twinkle with laughter, inviting close confidences.=Roleplaying: His words often seem to contain extra consonants-an extra "k" or two apiece.=Personality: Aleksei leads with charm, trying to disarm women first. He compliments women honestly and treats them as equals, pointing out that his lieutenants are women. Men he deals with brusquely, often delegating negotiations to his lieutenants.=Motivation: His education leads him to communism, but he's a man for doomed causes in general. He wants to establish a perfect society in an imperfect world.=Background: Aleksei spearheaded Russian efforts in several skirmishes and wars in the 1980s, developing a reputation as a deadly sniper, a force for the proletariat. Russia's reduced role after communism's fall didn't sit well with him; he continued fighting for the underdog as a mercenary, but found that few leaders still espoused communist ideals. He remains dedicated to overthrowing oppressors and establishing a state where true equality is practiced. PCs might find themselves at cross-purposes with Aleksei as he bumps off allied strongmen, or establishes zones of lawlessness in weaker countries-where communism can finally be practiced as it was meant to be.=Traits: (SM) Beautiful, leader, military, stealthy=742***=Lauren Chase =Flirtatious Burglar="So are you just going to buy me drinks all night or do you know somewhere where we could have more intimate conversation? Didn't you say your balcony faces the beach?"=Appearance: Lauren is a gorgeous woman with long black hair. She usually wears a short dress that hugs her perfect figure, unless the venue calls for something more appropriate. She wears trendy shoes and accessories that double as conversation pieces. =Roleplaying: She is a party girl. She knows all of the trendy drinks and dances well. She knows how to make and hold eye contact. She's all about the fun, providing someone else is picking up the tab.=Personality: Lauren cares little about her victims. She's out to enrich herself and her associates. She's also a bit of a hedonist and enjoys playing with her victim before robbing the poor soul blind. =Motivation: She wants money and enjoys having fun while acquiring it.=Background: Lauren is a burglar. She meets her victims at party venues and, once she's ascertained that the victim is wealthy and lives alone, she ingratiates herself with the victim. Once in the victim's house, Lauren encourages her victim to point out the valuable items. She's also played victim before just to see where the money is kept. Lauren then slips her mark a sleep-inducing drug and calls her associates to help her rob the place, having already bypassed the house's security. =Traits: (WC) Beautiful, charming, criminal=743***=Bianca Whitford=Bratty Carjacker="If they didn't want me to steal it, they shouldn't have made it so easy!"=Appearance: Tall and leggy, Bianca's hair is short, tousled messily, and blond. She dresses well in the latest fashions, designer sunglasses, and lavish jewelry. =Roleplaying: Bianca is arrogant and hyper. She rolls her eyes, dismisses others out of hand, and uses excessive annoying body language when talking.=Personality: Selfish and self-indulgent, Bianca is interested only in her own desires. She sees others as an annoyance and a barrier to getting her own way. She feels persecuted by law enforcement, who she believes should be leaving her alone and catching "real criminals."=Motivation: Bianca lives for the thrill of the chase and the high life her profession provides her with. =Background: Bianca grew up in a middle class neighborhood. She started hanging out with "the wrong crowd" and soon learned to love the adrenalin high and cash that breaking the law provided. Gravitating towards high-end crimes with big payoffs, she specialized in stealing very expensive cars, a specialty that enables her to turn a few minutes' work into thousands of dollars. Sometimes she will smash and grab, but she prefers to employ subtler methods, like using a stolen identity to buy cars under false names. Her thievery supplies multiple chop shops and underworld collectors and fuels her expensive tastes in fashion, toys, and cars of her own.=Traits: (MN) Criminal, stealthy, wealthy=744***=Tasha Nova=Glamorous Thief="I'm a patron of the arts, darling, not a thief. Besides, I have enough money tucked away to live comfortably for the rest of my life. Why risk it on this rather….exquisite…piece?"=Appearance: An intriguing blend of old world elegance and new world style, Tasha wears her hair short, accentuating her high cheek bones and flawless face. She prefers revealing designer clothing and is always dressed well, whether going for a walk in the park or attending a gallery function.=Roleplaying: Tasha is always glamorous and charming. She never stops smiling and knows just what to say to put people at ease. Occasionally, Tasha seems a bit distant, as if something weighs heavily in her mind.=Personality: She enjoys the thrill of the con, using her wiles to steal priceless artifacts and money. For her it's all a game, and she doesn't mind who she burns. Tasha has become such a chameleon that it's difficult to know where she truly stands on anything.=Motivation: She enjoys stealing things, especially when the theft challenging.=Background: Tasha often speaks with a French or Russian accent, but she's really an American orphan. She grew up in foster homes and wanted a glamorous lifestyle. As she got older, she learned how to con people and steal things, attaching herself to experts while convenient and then leaving them behind once she'd learned all she could. She can be ruthless towards anyone who gets in her way.=Traits: (WC) Charming, criminal, mysterious, white collar=745***=Lord Finley Barmlay=Distinguished Mastermind="My word. I really expected my adversaries to have a better command of the language. As heroes, you are truly a disappointment."=Appearance: He wears a formal, well-tailored three-piece suit (dark in the winter, white in the spring and summer, gray in the fall) with a bowler. He is immaculate. He keeps his thin dark mustache perfectly trimmed.=Roleplaying: He often stops to correct henchmen on their grammar and diction. He makes them repeat the offending word or phrase until it is correct.=Personality: He is condescending toward those he thinks are a lesser class, such as the majority of the Great Unwashed. He considers himself to be on par with the aristocrats of the world, which he believes justifies his criminal actions.  =Motivation: He has a particular taste for acquiring objects of delicate construction and immense worth, but he's not above robbing the occasional bank or casino to finance his outlandish schemes.  =Background: He was born into a family of noble blood in Great Britain; the family has long-since disowned him because of his deeds. He carries on, bolstered by his own considerable holdings and his numerous schemes. Of course, he rarely takes part in a heist himself, always firmly establishing an alibi and then relying on his henchmen to provide further deniability. He remains untouched by the law, living lavishly on his estate in the north of England.  =Traits: (TT) Charming, humorous, wealthy=746***=Estaban Delgado=Immortal World-Shaper="History is a mirror into the future. The crosswinds of time are powerless if you bend with them."=Appearance: Estaban is tall and swarthy with a finely groomed dark black goatee. He is in his mid-fifties and has long, jet-black hair tied back neatly. He wears a button-down shirt with a tailored vest and ascot. A long housecoat of crushed velvet and corduroy gives him a distinguished look.=Roleplaying: He talks in riddles and has a disarming Spanish accent. He speaks with his hands and ensures that his guests are well attended to. Jabs appear to have no effect upon his veneer.=Personality: Estaban is remarkably well informed in matters of history and displays wisdom that is shocking. It is as if a part of him is still in the past-or he lived it himself. He's experienced enough to not fall for simple ruses and sees through most falsehoods.=Motivation: He desires the acquisition of power, something that he has spent-he claims-many centuries doing.=Background: All manner of art lines the walls of his mansions, and he lives a lifestyle to rival a king's. Rumors persist that Delgado is immortal and has lived for generations, every so often faking his death and transferring his wealth to a new identity. If these rumors are to be believed, Delgado has helped shaped the development of nations and guided events to his benefit.=Traits: (DM) Academic, ancient, mysterious, occult, power hungry, wealthy=747***=Stu Owen=Murderous Hunter="The rules are simple. You are dropped off in the middle of 10,000 acres of wilderness. You are given survival gear but no map or compass. You get a one-day head start. If you can escape, you will receive a fortune in cash. If I find you first, I will kill you."=Appearance: He is bald, with a full beard and a tan face and scalp. He is in great physical condition and it shows. He wears simple, high-quality hunting clothes and always has a knife and a pistol on his belt.=Roleplaying: Stu toys with people, and is very sadistic. When others are speaking, he'll do rude things to distract them, like tap his finger on a table's surface, start whistling a tune, or even throw his knife into the wall.=Personality: He loves being the person in charge. He thrives on being wealthy and powerful. He is a sociopath and an elitist.=Motivation: He wants to prove that he is above the law, and that no one is a threat to him. He believes that he is superior to all other people and that he can do whatever he wants.=Background: Stu made his fortune through the sale of conflict diamonds, and he bought large sections of wilderness. He always enjoyed hunting, but he found it unsatisfying that animals were fearful by instinct and not reason. That is when he started to hunt human prey.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, criminal, focal, outdoorsman, wealthy=748***=Norton Foley=Egotistical Mayor="This is my town, son. You'd better learn to play by my rules."=Appearance: A short, stocky man in his early fifties, Norton keeps his thinning curly hair cut short and always wears a clean, light-colored suit. His fingers stink of pipe smoke and he always has a pipe and tobacco on hand. =Roleplaying: Norton is overly friendly in a predatory way. He constantly reminds his conversation partners who's the boss, often pointing out others that are in his pocket. He plays at being respectable, but he always has his fingers in several pies.=Personality: He is king of his domain. Norton enjoys lording his power over the rest of the townsfolk. He's egotistical and believes himself to be the smartest person in town. Deep down, however, he feels that people are plotting against him and takes pains to assuage those feelings.=Motivation: He wants to maintain the status quo as the ruler of his domain, with his "subjects" serving him. Should someone threaten that arrangement Norton would spare no expense to be rid of them.=Background: Norton is a dying breed, a local mayor who has authoritarian power and influence. The city council is afraid of him and the police chief is in his back pocket. Norton has a stake in most of the town businesses and changes ordinances to suit his needs. He's suspicious of strangers and tries to move them along before they cause trouble.=Traits: (WC) Business, leader, police, political=749***=Yamada Masateru=Obstinate Yakuza Leader="I do not believe we have to follow your orders any longer, Oyabun."=Appearance: Covered in dragon and demon tattoos, Masateru projects strength and anger from his cold, hard face.=Roleplaying: Masateru doesn't back down from anyone. =He pushes past people, taking whatever he wants by force. He rules his gang through strength of will and challenges even the authority of those above him within the organization.=Personality: His arrogance knows no bounds. He sees himself as inferior to no man, and if he can take something by force, it only proves he is stronger. Masateru doesn't show fear and only feigns obedience to his master's wishes.=Motivation: He wants power for himself and his gang. He doesn't care who gets in the way.=Background: Masateru started life on the streets as a low-ranking thug, but it wasn't too long until his strength and anger brought him to the attention of higher-ups. Using him as a tool to take out the members who were getting too big for their britches, the Yakuza bosses created their own worst nightmare. Masateru consolidated his own power amongst the young and ambitious gang members, and he began to erode the long-established power bases in the organization. The organization has been plotting how to get rid of him, but he has built up defenses of his own. The situation is beginning to boil over, and wars for control have broken out on the streets.=Traits: (JA) Criminal, leader, notorious=750***=Jessica Knowls=Mercenary Pilot="I'm the right person for this mission, and you know it. My plane's the best you've got, I have the training and reflexes your men lack, and I'm a mercenary-expendable. Sir. Send me."=Appearance: Jessica keeps combat-fit; curly brown hair tops a slender 5'10" frame.=Roleplaying: She looks at people through her sunglasses, never removing them, projecting calm confidence. Jessica still has a Southern drawl, which she exaggerates if people show impatience.=Personality: She's rough, ready, and very confident. She'll dress appropriately for a meeting with the Emir, but is back in a flight suit ASAP. =Motivation: She grew up knowing that she wanted to fly and being told that she could do anything she dreamed. She loves the adrenaline that comes with combat missions. Flight is everything-it doesn't matter what side she fights for.=Background: Long denied a chance to fly combat missions in the U.S. Air Force, Jessica signed on as mercenary air support for Middle Eastern and African governments. Two tours ago, she fled a collapsing government position with her Fighting Falcon; while it's pricey to maintain, she gets her pick of assignments. Providing air support for extermination missions twinges her conscience, but she's loyal to her contract.=Traits: (SM) Adventurer, military, pilot