Chapter 3: Sci-Fi=Space is big; the science fiction genre is bigger. The 83 villains, 83 allies, =and 167 neutral NPCs in this chapter would be right at home in campaigns ranging from space opera to cyberpunk to supers-and all points in between.=Within these pages are villains like a psychic king who possesses a new body every time he dies, a superstitious corporate infiltrator, and a slaver with dangerous friends; neutral NPCs such as a medic who survived the apocalypse, a mechanic who repairs time machines, and a union leader who fights for space miners' rights. Among the allies are characters like a cybernetic warrior princess, a closeted psychic, and a scientist pursuing the dream of "free energy."=Whatever the scope or style of your campaign, you'll find sci-fi NPCs who fit the bill. Between post-apocalyptic settings, which are sci-fi but also quite close to being fantasy, and supers games, which tend to be set in the modern world, there's also quite a bit of overlap between science fiction and the other two genres in Masks-which makes it even easier to adapt these NPCs as you see fit.=Sci-Fi Villains=Out from the depths of space, the darkest alleys in the sprawl, and the post-apocalyptic =wasteland come a human plague vector bent on infecting the galaxy, a lunatic with a bionic endoskeleton, and a feral wanderer-along with 80 other sci-fi villains you can drop straight into your game. Whether they're more at home in the corporate boardrooms of a dystopian future or at the center of gleaming fleets of interstellar warships, these villains will make the PCs in your campaign sweat, flee, or fight for their lives.=335***=Sivia Stryden=Sympathetic Thought-Policewoman="Pardon me. I have to ask you two questions. Do you intend to do something that you know is wrong? Second, you do realize that doing something wrong hurts you far more than it hurts other people, don't you?"=Appearance: She cuts her hair short, which identifies her as a member of Security. She is slim, athletic, and has a graceful stride.=Roleplaying: Sivia is disarming. Her smiles are reassuring and convey a sense of understanding. She gestures non-threateningly with an open palm.=Personality: She is fair-minded and trustworthy.=Motivation: Her obligation is to root out nonconformists, but she would prefer to "save them from themselves," if given the opportunity.=Background: Her ability to cultivate trust was identified early during her education. Her natural curiosity, usually a troublesome trait, was honed for her role as an investigator. She never abuses her authority. She always tries to prevent thought-crimes or impulse-crimes before they occur. Giving the wayward person a chance to confess or repent eases her conscience. Once on a case, she is a determined investigator. On a personal level, she is eager to have a mate selected for her. She hopes the selection is soon-she is approaching the age when child-bearing is forbidden and she wants to share her respect for society with her offspring. It would only be fair to allow her to experience child rearing, she thinks. Being denied this might push her over the edge.=Traits: (TT) Counselor, police=336***="Sanguine"=Comical Killer="No, you see, the joke is on you! My deathtrap is so…hilarious!"=Appearance: He is a portly man, wearing deep purple robes of velvet. An anti-gravity harness allows him to defy his weight for a time, bouncing like a perverse ball of flesh. His head is balding and his face and pudgy fingers are ruddy in pallor.=Roleplaying: Constantly grinning and laughing, he struggles for breath as he speaks. He waves his short, bloated fingers like a fan.=Personality: Sanguine is disturbed and views everything as one outrageous joke of misfortune. He's addicted to laughter now.=Motivation: He no longer seeks to cure his condition but to extend it further; the euphoric qualities of his disability demand that he commit more elaborate crimes.=Background: Originally, he was a renowned bioengineer who crafted automated prostheses for individuals, as well as their controlling mechanisms. In an effort to counter his increasing weight gain and failing limbs, he implanted a chip in his own brain to provide a synaptic connection. This connection stimulated areas of the cerebral cortex responsible for laughter. Now Sanguine falls into fits of uncontrollable laughter when his considerable intellect is brought to bear. The more he thinks, the more the chip forces him to laugh. Requiring constant stimulation-the condition is addictive-Sanguine uses his intellect as a criminal mastermind. To keep laughing he must keep stealing, and the more complex the plan, the more stimulation he achieves.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, genius=337***=Duchess Paula Terence=Royal Assassin="How DARE they! They should feel honored to serve us!"=Appearance: A classical beauty wearing high-priced couture with perfect coiffure and posture, it's obvious that Paula has an entire team devoted to keeping her at the peak of attractiveness.=Roleplaying: Aloof and cold, Paula listens to others with barely suppressed amusement on her face. She has little patience for anyone but nobility and none for anyone who would put demands upon her.=Personality: By virtue of her royal heritage, Paula is better than almost everyone else. She's certain that if the world wasn't rife with such worthless vermin, it might just figure that out.=Motivation: Political dissidents to the rule of the nobility are a plague on her country, and Paula aims to find and eliminate every single one.=Background: A spoiled brat who's entirely too certain of the divine right of the nobility to rule, Paula is outraged by the simpering populist trend to appease the unwashed masses. As if the current concessions weren't bad enough, agitator scum still push for further indulgences and Paula intends to put a stop to it. With a network of newly purchased spy robots, she's begun selecting targets. Though she's a novice with a sniper rifle, the targeting computer and recoil compensators on her top-of-the-line weapon make the entire ordeal nothing more than "point and click."=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, beautiful, dilettante, royalty, warrior, wealthy, zealot=338***=Frankie Nightingale=Vampire Lounge Singer="Thank you! You're a wonderful audience! Be sure to tip your server bots. And you, young miss, how about dinner? I'm starving…"=Appearance: He wears a black sharkskin tuxedo and gaudy rings with large stones. His skin is pale with a bluish tint, and his blond hair is slicked back.=Roleplaying: When the lyrics have similar context to the spoken conversation , he'll sing a line or two of a classic song instead of speaking.=Personality: Arrogant in a subtle way, Frankie tries to win people over with his charm.=Motivation: He loves life and wants to enjoy it-forever.=Background: Many decades ago, Frankie was a biochemist who discovered a compound that stopped the aging process. Along with virtual immortality, the person who ingests it develops an allergic reaction to sunlight and a need to consume large amounts of iron-rich plasma such as can be found in human blood. When Frankie was diagnosed with terminal cancer, he decided to ingest the compound himself as a way to cheat death. He now knows that the compound is also addictive and that he is hooked on it. Even though medical science could cure his cancer in the present day, he can't stop using the compound. Instead, Frankie has decided on a much more morbid and murderous life. He's been smart about it, too: Who would believe in a vampire lounge act?=Traits: (PB) Ancient, charming, eccentric, entertainment=339***=Hilloc Jennifal=Intense Psychic King="That is not what Bellor said! Marissa, I'm coming. And you too can have this Miracle Ship Wax for just 20 credits! Oh. I'm sorry; it is sometimes hard to keep the static down. What were you saying with your lip words?"=Appearance: Though dressed in the robes and trappings of royalty, Hilloc's face seems to be constantly tense and in pain. When he can shake off the psychic voices coming in from across the galaxy, he seems calmly belabored, as if struggling to maintain control.=Roleplaying: Hilloc is torn by the voices beaming into his head, and he has to shout his words in order to drown them out.=Personality: He's a small boat awash on the tide of an uncontrollable psychic sea. When he has moments of clarity, he generally ignores everyone, enjoying the silence.=Motivation: Hilloc desires peaceful oblivion, and uses his powers to influence leaders to war, cause disasters at power plants, and destroy civilizations in an effort to quiet the universe.=Background: Forced to take the throne of his planet at a young age, Hilloc inherited incredible psychic powers from the ancient, experimental subspace engine of the crashed colony ship that seeded his planet. Because he was too young and without the proper training or rituals when he inherited the power, his mind was irrevocably changed by the engine, granting him extensive power-and immortality. When he dies, he uncontrollably possesses another body, prolonging his tortured existence.=Traits: (JA) Magical, royalty, zealot=340***=Judge Pyros Starrunner=Disgusted Traveling Judge="There are no innocents. There are only degrees of the guilty."=Appearance: A tall, lanky man whose judge robe hangs loosely about his frame, Pyros has a long, gaunt face and one augmented eye. He has a stiff, deliberate walk and usually carries a cane.=Roleplaying: He is dry, humorless, and speaks in slow, deliberate tones. Pleadings of innocence are rewarded with an eye roll and a bored yawn.=Personality: Pyros has spent a long time on the bench and believes that everyone is guilty of something. He is extremely cynical and jaded and both influence his decisions.=Motivation: He wants to put the guilty behind bars. Unfortunately, everyone is guilty.=Background: Justice is hard to come by on the outer rim worlds, which are primarily small company mining colonies and outposts. When a judge is needed, outer rim parties usually employ a judge-for-hire; Pyros is one such judge. He spent a lot of time on a core world bench and became disgusted with the defendants that were in front of him. He came to believe that all defendants are guilty. Thus, when corporations need a judge who'll rule in their favor, they hire Judge Pyros Starrunner. Pyros is sure to ignore the plight of the colonists and side with the corporations every time. =Traits: (WC) Political, white collar=341***=Jorem Ezkrill=Committed Revolutionary="Have you heard what the appeasers are up to now? Join us, or don't come crying to me when your land's confiscated."=Appearance: Jorem is a muscular, hardened man with dusky skin and cornrows accenting a bold chin and a goatee. Bandoliers, pockets, and packs mark him as a man ready to act.=Roleplaying: Boldness and bravery led Jorem to greatness; they continue to define him.=Personality: Jorem is right, as are the terrible actions he has to take serving his cause. The crackdowns and manhunts prove that he's a threat, and only redouble his convictions.=Motivation: He needs the adulation that comes with action, and he's bitter about being betrayed and losing so many comrades in arms.=Background: Jorem joined the revolution against the corrupt governor, rising swiftly in the movement's ranks. After years of struggle, the government met with leaders in his faction and agreed to share power. The rebels splintered, with Jorem leading those opposed to compromise. He lost several friends to raids guided by information his former allies gave to security forces. With his rebel movement crippled, Jorem leads his men to strike softer targets and worries less about civilian casualties.=Traits: (SM) Aggressive, leader, military, notorious, power hungry, stealthy, warrior=342***=Rashina Tabata=("Tabula Rasa")=Slippery Con Artist="I don't know who else to turn to, but only if you're sure. Are you sure?"=Appearance: Her actual appearance varies widely, but regardless of the disguise, her left eye has a patch of green in its otherwise brown iris.=Roleplaying: A natural actor, her mannerisms vary, but she always asks "Are you sure?" multiple times before setting the hook.=Personality: Her love of manipulating others is nearly as great as her talent at it.=Motivation: She's made more than enough money, but she's addicted to scamming others.=Background: As a student, Rashina Tabata showed an uncanny ability to mimic others, and was encouraged to act. She was a natural but never pursued acting, because she would rather manipulate people. Taking the pseudonym "Tabula Rasa," she has made billions (and lost millions) from her cons, but it's not about the money. She's addicted to her scams-the bigger, the better. She's embezzled charity accounts and destabilized planetary economies, and keeps going for grander scams. She has her personal plastic surgeon change her features regularly, so she is difficult to identify, and keeps on the move, generally among the frontier worlds. She had a security team, just in case things went badly, but didn't get the same thrill with their safety net; she now operates unaided. =Traits: (KS) Charming, criminal, merchant, power hungry, wealthy=343***=High Sister Flora Kane=Fanatical Religious Leader="This world is ripe for resurrection. May the seeds of life tear apart those artificial blights upon this world!"=Appearance: A heavy-set middle-aged woman with flaxen hair, Flora wears an earth-toned cloak and vestments. She has great difficulty walking and prefers to ride in a powered hover-chair.=Roleplaying: She is soft-spoken and credits everything to "Mother Universe." She does not acknowledge nor respond to obviously artificial or heavily-augmented characters.=Personality: Flora is a fanatical servant of an entity she calls "Mother Universe." She firmly believes that humanity is using technology to exploit worlds and rape them of their resources. As a human, she feels personally responsible for these acts.=Motivation: She wants to return planets to their native state, ironically using technology to do so.=Background: Flora was born on a colony with an exotic and harmful habitat. When technology failed to restore her legs after an accident, Flora looked for spiritual aid. She found it in Mother Universe and established a new religion. Flora now uses her resources to create weapons that can reseed a world, making the local plant life grow rapidly and destroy cities and factories, which she sees as a blight. Flora has a surprising number of influential followers that give her money to "save the universe." So far Flora has limited herself to sparsely colonized worlds of dubious value; her support may wane once she hits civilized worlds.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, religious, zealot=344***=Kosmo Andronikov=Aggressive Officer="My troops are better armed, better trained, and far better led than these Cossacks!"=Appearance: He looks like a recruiting poster: handsome, confident, and immaculate.=Roleplaying: Although he's never been to Earth, he peppers his language with Russian terms, and affects a slight accent.=Personality: Instinctively aggressive, he seeks to take the offensive in any situation.=Motivation: He lives to overcome every obstacle and win every conflict he encounters.=Background: The proud son of a proud family, Kosmo was raised to be confident and aggressive in everything he does. He excelled in school and at the military academy, although his record since his commission has been decidedly mixed. For instance, his unorthodox assault on the rear areas of an indigenous revolt saved the bureaucrats held hostage when their spaceport was taken over-but it also killed hundreds of non-combatants, and exacerbated the friction between the government and the natives. He was moved to this sector shortly afterwards, allegedly as a normal rotation, but many say it was for his own protection. He is not respected by his officers or senior non-commissioned officers, who see him as needlessly aggressive. They dread the day when their troops will have to stand between his aggression and a delicate situation. =Traits: (KS) Aggressive, beautiful, leader, military, warrior=345***=The Carrier=Plague-Ridden Lunatic="<smiles beatifically>"=Appearance: The Carrier wears ordinary clothing over a network of tubes, IVs, and drug delivery bags taped to his body. He's frail and bow-legged, and his face is a mass of sores.=Roleplaying: He never speaks, but has a beatific smile. He's calm and patient, but doesn't try to appear normal.=Personality: The Carrier is a psychopath who loves to watch people suffer and die. He gets excited when he comes across a new disease and finds a way to survive carrying it. He nurtures and prolongs some of his conditions like children, so as to ensure he can share them.=Motivation: He revels in causing pain, in seeing people consumed with sickness, and in bringing entire colonies and species to their knees. He lives to inflict suffering.=Background: Deeply insane, his madness manifests itself as an obsession with spreading disease. Infected with over a hundred diseases, viruses, exotic bacteria, and plagues, he travels from world to world and wipes out whole populations. His favorite thing to do is to travel anonymously through the crowds in an alien city whose inhabitants have no natural resistance to one or more of his conditions, watching people sicken and die around him. He usually travels alone in a small ship, but sometimes secures passage aboard larger vessels. He has numerous bounties on his head, though most aren't posted by his victims-they rarely survive.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, focal, hideous, mysterious, notorious, pilot, stealthy=346***=Pamela Thompson=Medical Zealot="With the right parts, you won't fail at inconvenient times."=Appearance: Pam stands just under 6' with dark hair that falls to the middle of her back, and an attractive, fit build for a woman of 42. She's mechanical about working out; Tuesdays are precisely 15 minutes on the treadmill, seven minutes of free weights, etc.=Roleplaying: The precision of numbers, even if it's a false precision, reassures Pam. So there's a 62% chance of rain, a 0.0083 incident rate, and so forth. Her eyes shine and she becomes animated when she discusses the failure of flesh and the superiority of designed replacements.=Personality: Patients need to upgrade their parts anyway; Pamela might as well profit from it. If they require infection to be convinced, she'll help them out.=Motivation: After her own body failed her, Pam believes in the superiority of designed and artificial parts with a convert's fervency.=Background: Pam should have died several times; she was infected by an alien virus when she was nine and her body shut down part by part. Her town rallied around her and raised the money for treatment. After two years of pain she finally left the hospital; her recovery was swift. Medicine became central to her life, putting her on a biochemical research career path, where she excelled. Recently she's been involved on the business end, educating doctors about her company's products...and inflicting organ failures so that others must upgrade.=Traits: (SM) Business, medic, zealot=347***=Virginia Sprague=Unassuming Roboticist="Oh my, is that because of what I did? How exciting!"=Appearance: Short and skinny, no lab coat ever fit Virginia well. Combined with the thick glasses she has to wear, Virginia looks like a caricature of a mad scientist.=Roleplaying: Unassuming, she putters about lost in her own thoughts. She speaks to herself and generally ignores others. When she is given too little respect, she rages and fumes-and sends her robots after those who have slighted her.=Personality: Quiet and shy, she gets angry when she is ignored. She sees herself as a mild person in a harsh world, only doing what everyone else does to get a leg up.=Motivation: All Virginia really wants is respect and equality, and to get that she has to be bold. Now that she has finished her secret project, she'll show them. She'll show them all.=Background: Virginia Sprague was an incredibly smart little girl, getting into advanced mathematics programs at a young age. Like most geniuses, she had trouble fitting in. Older students couldn't relate to her and were often jealous of her intellect, so they left her alone. She developed an incredible shyness alongside of her amazing skill at robotics. When she entered the corporate world, she retreated even farther into her shell and grew bitter at the way she was treated. Secretly developing robots obedient only to her, Virginia sees herself as a comic book villain-someone who people respect.=Traits: (JA) Academic, eccentric, genius, scientist=348***=Tayven Arcolus=Foolish Captain="My starship is the best there is. It stands to reason, does it not, that her captain-that would be me-is also the best there is? I say, you, over there. Get rid of that thingamajig. I do not like the look of it. Yes, that thing! No ‘buts.' You must learn to obey if you want what's best for this ship. Move along now."=Appearance: He is in his mid-forties, but Tayven doesn't look a day over 35, with a pretty face and a body to match. His uniform is so decorated with ribbons, medals, and tassels that it seems impractical. He carries a riding crop-the symbol of his authority.=Roleplaying: He says the most pompous, absurd things with such certainty they must be true. When making a point, he pats the riding crop in his palm.=Personality: For someone who knows so little about how a starship actually works, Tayven commands with confidence and never doubts his decisions. He adroitly cultivates willingness in others to make even his most outlandish wishes happen. He talks about fulfilling his "destiny."=Motivation: He relishes the privileges his position offers-and woe unto any upstart who thinks they can best him or unseat him.=Background: He advanced his career by proceeding as though he had full knowledge of every situation and making a few lucky guesses. At the pinnacle of his career, he rides the wave of his authority, bullying those in lesser positions.=Traits: (TT) Dilettante, military, notorious=349***=Ford Halycon=Idealistic Revolutionary="We have been exploited long enough. It's time for the corporations and the galactic government to bend to us!"=Appearance: Ford is a young man with a winning smile and universally handsome features. He wears an asteroid miner's uniform, although his hands are well-manicured. His uniform bears the patches of corporations he's felled on one sleeve and the "flag of the outer worlds" on the other.=Roleplaying: He speaks the language of the oppressed. He can't help but shoehorn references to "exploitation," "corporate greed," and "accomplices in government" into every conversation. He has a fiery tone as if giving a speech, even when he's having a private conversation.=Personality: Ford believes in neo-communism, but he enjoys the finer things in life. He rationalizes this by not being publicly ostentatious and believing that the message is more important than the messenger.=Motivation: He firmly believes in neo-communism and wants to spread it throughout the galaxy. Naturally, he'd be the leader of the movement.=Background: Ford graduated as a middling actor forced to play low-budget roles on frontier worlds at the fringes of the galaxy. He filmed a documentary highlighting the exploitation of asteroid miners and was inspired to end their plight. Ford found neo-communism to be a perfect philosophy and used it to spur workers to revolt. With the galactic navy too far away to react, Ford was able to take control of a few frontier worlds. =Traits: (WC) Beautiful, charming, entertainment, political, zealot=350***=Commander Harkins=Military Tyrant="The people of this planet live in fear. Fear of the unknown. Their chaotic freedoms give them neither direction nor purpose. We will save them. Our invasion will bring order to their lives. Begin the attack."=Appearance: She stands 7'6" tall and 4' wide, because she is always in her mechanized battle armor. The only visible flesh is her face when she lifts her visor. The skin of her face is young and soft, but her eyes betray knowledge of far greater years.=Roleplaying: She speaks very little, but when she does speak it is only to ask a question or to issue an order.=Personality: Commander Harkins is merciless and uncompromising.=Motivation: She is trying to bring every civilization in the known universe under her rule.=Background: As a military student 500 years ago, Harkins was part of the first interplanetary war. When she died during battle, her remains and her last set of good brain waves (retrieved from her helmet) were used to create a clone. Over the centuries she has both moved up the ranks and died hundreds of times. Each time she died she learned something new about war and combat. Eventually she took over the military entirely, and now she lives only to see her tyranny spread to every planet she can reach. Of course, she decommissioned the use of the cloning and brain wave scanners for anyone else but herself decades ago. Why risk a potential rival?=Traits: (PB) Ancient, leader, military, warrior=351***=Wynn Lancaster=Heartless Experimenter="Rest now in penance. Your suffering has only begun."=Appearance: In her mid to late forties, she dresses in fashionable attire, heels, and a business suit with a raised collar. Her dark brown hair is tightly wound up in a bun. Large, sunken brown eyes look deep into those around her and she clutches at a tattered medical bag with a handle.=Roleplaying: Wynn speaks cautiously and with constant references to "sin" and "penance." Her hands always remain quietly at her side. She projects an air of calmness.=Personality: She's eager to speak of her beliefs-those of the Purifiers who seek to cleanse the genetic pool of impurities. Anyone showing interest gains Wynn's full attention. She has a strong distaste for anyone who meddles with her divine goal.=Motivation: She seeks to cleanse the gene pool through one horrific procedure at a time, until it is perfected.=Background: Man's race to the stars has soiled its genetic makeup. Fervent groups who follow the way of the Purifiers seek to remove these rogue elements from humanity. Wynn's background as a medical researcher has provided her with firsthand experience with mutated DNA, rallying her to the cause. Strange deaths follow her from ward to ward. Wynn administers a paralytic compound to prevent struggling (they remain fully aware) and an agent injected through the eye socket scrubs the offending genetic markers. This is an excruciatingly painful process that-thus far-kills the recipient. She favors experimenting on half-breeds.=Traits: (DM) Religious, scientist, zealot=352***=Clotilda "Tilda" Garnet=Time-Traveling Interloper="The great men of history are irrational, that's all there is to that! What Mr. George Bernard Shaw would say of women, I say of men: They are jealous, exacting, suspicious, and a damned nuisance. Infuriating, but my intentions toward them...are entirely honorable."=Appearance: She's a prim woman carrying a parasol and wearing an ensemble that includes a corset, sleeved jacket, and a skirt with bustle. A brimmed hat is perched atop her ginger hair, which is done up in ringlets. Her locket is made of gears which move in sync with one another.=Roleplaying: Even when walking with purpose, she moves at a graceful pace that suggests the world will wait on her. Before sitting, Tilda takes a kerchief and sweeps the seat clean. She speaks in perfect Oxford English.=Personality: She is refined, and expects similar attention to details from those she encounters. She sees the tiny flaws in everyone, but is charming in every circumstance.=Motivation: History is too full of inconsistencies and incongruities. Tilda considers it her duty to right these "wrongs" with a little time-travel tidying up.=Background: Clotilda used to consider every man she was interested in a "project"-requiring her guidance in manners and civility. When a device that enabled time travel fell into her possession, she set about "fixing" the great men of history. After all, Genghis Khan, with proper instruction, could be made a suitable tea party companion.=Traits: (TT) Adventurer, charming, humorous=353***=Duke Weslen of the Scorpio Nebula=Spoiled Noble="Why should I spare the lives of these people? They refuse to join the Emperor's star fleet! Don't quote his edicts to me! I know them, but I know better than them as well! I would make a much better emperor, if I do say so myself."=Appearance: His head is shaved, except for a single braid near the left temple that hangs down to his chin. His scalp is tattooed with the royal crest of his family-a winged boar.=Roleplaying: He is prone to violent outbursts, and often will lift his arm to backhand another person if they do not silence themselves.=Personality: He is an arrogant sociopath.=Motivation: Duke Weslen wants to be the emperor of all of the planets in the Scorpio Nebula.=Background: As a boy, he killed his first nanny with a titanium sonic-ball racquet when she refused to give him a chocolate, after his mother had ordered that he be given no more sweets. His parents lectured him, but they never disciplined him, much less reported the matter to the authorities. He continued his violent ways, yet his parents never paid it serious attention. The former Duke often said that is was Weslen's right by royal blood to treat commoners however he wanted-in fact, he had said as much just before he and his wife were blown up by a mysterious package.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, aggressive, notorious, royalty, warrior=354***=Horacio Nashon=Brazen Trader="If you don't want to pay what I am asking, I can sell these arms to your enemy instead. Don't think of drawing your weapon. I am a faster and better shot. So? Do we have a deal?"=Appearance: Horacio is a short and blocky man. His hair is gone and he now has cosmetic scarring on both sides of his head. He wears rugged but expensive clothes.=Roleplaying: Horacio always shakes hands with a tight grip. He strokes his beard when he's impatient, and claps his hands together loudly to break tension or get people's attention.=Personality: Horacio's a bold businessman who will pilot his ship into any system and sell to the highest bidder. He will not hesitate to crush any competition.=Motivation: Money brings power, and power is what fuels Horacio. He has a long-term goal of buying a planetary governorship.=Background: Horacio's parents sold him to a trader captain when he was a boy. He grew up in an environment of greed and manipulation where money bought promotions. He took to it quickly, and, through internal dealings, purchased the second-in-command rank in just a few years. In his twenties he bought out the captain, taking the ship as his own. He now travels the galaxy looking for opportunities that will net him more money and more power.=Traits: (PV) Adventurer, merchant, power hungry=355***=Edmund Chantry, Ph.D.=Academic Revolutionary="Freedom is the problem! Freedom to leave your planet and go screw up someone else's, freedom to trade your cheap crap for the only thing these natives have, freedom to destroy every culture you touch!"=Appearance: Looking like an older college student or someone returning from vacation, he's lean and tanned, but could use a haircut, a shave, and some better clothes.=Roleplaying: His cultured and polite exterior is occasionally broken by an emotional outburst.=Personality: Behind his noble crusade lurks a very angry and misanthropic man.=Motivation: He wants to stop all interplanetary travel by any means necessary.=Background: While in school, Edmund lost both of his very wealthy parents to a commercial spaceliner crash. He has never forgiven the spaceliner operator for the crash, although the official report absolves them. Later on in life, as a somewhat sheltered biochemistry researcher, Edmund was shocked to see how much indigenous tribes had been corrupted by contact with the outside world. Even those in protected areas had lost much of their culture. He blames space travel for his parents' death and for the destruction of indigenous cultures, and has declared war. He uses his extensive wealth and scientific training to sabotage any kind of space travel infrastructure, using explosives and computer viruses. He is currently researching the use of bio-weapons such as highly contagious diseases.=Traits: (KS) Academic, focal, scientist, stealthy, wealthy, zealot=356***=Alice "Granny Headhunter" Simmons=Ruthless Bounty Hunter="I'll find him, and I'll catch him for ya. But if you want him alive that is gonna cost extra cuz that means more work for me. And if you want him alive with all of his existing parts intact that'll cost you even more."=Appearance: Despite her wrinkled face and thinning white hair, her body is a mass of muscles. The most advanced steroids and growth hormones, combined with a rigorous training program, have kept her in shape well past her youthful years.=Roleplaying: She chews tobacco and spits the juice out wherever she likes. She always has a weapon at the ready.=Personality: Alice treats all people equally: She hates them.=Motivation: She spent the best years of her life in combat-first in the service, then as a mercenary. The only profession that brings her a similar satisfaction is bounty hunting, but she misses being in a good war.=Background: She was forced to join the military by her sexually abusive father because he considered her to be a "soft and fat little whore." Once part of the service, she was treated only slightly better, but at least she was no longer being raped. The military got her into shape and then gave her a gun. For the first time Alice felt powerful, and she will never be a victim ever again. Seven decades later she's still as powerful as ever.=Traits: (PB) Aggressive, military, warrior=357***=Commander Matthew Leonard=Vengeful Starship Designer="Stop bothering me and get the hell out!"=Appearance: Half of Matthew's face is a scarred lump of melted flesh. His legs and left arm are cybernetic prostheses. His lab coat hangs awkwardly, and his half-head of hair is pulled back into a ponytail.=Roleplaying: Matthew is easily annoyed and snaps crankily at anyone who disturbs his work. When he perceives weakness of any kind, he becomes abusive, often citing his ability to continue being productive despite his injuries.=Personality: His burning hatred for those who "did this to him" leaves Matthew bitter and angry at the world.=Motivation: Matthew wants to use the hidden features of the ships he designs to start a war that will wipe out the group responsible for his injuries.=Background: Before he was a military scientist, Matthew was a field commander. During a mission, his squad was driven into a minefield where a misstep vaporized his men and left him a bloody mess. Extracted before he could bleed out and repaired with the best hardware available, Matthew studied hard and applied for training and reassignment to research and development. After years of work, he is finally head of warship design, where he incorporates hidden features into ships that allow him to control them remotely. Matthew abuses these backdoors to spark interplanetary incidents, hoping to start a new war that will destroy the objects of his hatred.=Traits: (MN) Academic, aggressive, focal, hideous, military, scientist, zealot=358***=Tak=Post-Apocalyptic Anarchist="That's right, just ‘Tak.' I'm here to burn your town to the ground, and I don't much care if you're still here when I do it."=Appearance: With a streak of white in her long brown hair, flashing eyes, and a relaxed but predatory air about her, Tak is a striking woman. She wears travel-stained leathers and carries a sawed-off shotgun.=Roleplaying: Cold and unfeeling, Tak hates anyone who can't survive on their own. She treats people like dirt and kills without remorse.=Personality: Tak views it as her personal mandate to remind people that the world is a harsh place. At her core, she burns with rage at humanity's hubris and need for community.=Motivation: She hates civilization and all its trappings, and will stop at nothing to see that the world never rises from the ashes.=Background: Born before the Great Crash that nearly destroyed the world, Tak discovered that she liked it better after the apocalypse. In her early days as a wanderer, she encountered one too many bands of people who were little better than scavengers and rapists, and decided that the world was better off without civilization. Now she roams the wasteland alone, burning down settlements, destroying nascent cities, and generally causing chaos. Seemingly indestructible, she's tough, resourceful, and relentless. In the post-apocalyptic wasteland, she's the perfect predator, a force of nature who's the ultimate enemy of progress.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, notorious, outdoorsman, primal, warrior, zealot=359***=Princess Eliana=Planetary Overseer="These strangers entice me. Yes, they defy me. But I will see them all captured and made into my playthings. Yes, that would be delicious."=Appearance: Eliana is a vision of exotic loveliness, a descendent of a forgotten branch of humanity that now rules this alien landscape. She wears only a bikini of the finest light metal mesh and chainmail, accented with a golden torque, a jeweled crown, armbands, and wrist and ankle bracelets. She is lightly draped in a gossamer shawl, hip scarf, and loincloth.=Roleplaying: In moments of frustration, she will bite her lower lip. She dotes on a toy-sized pet she keeps leashed-her favorite is a miniature wooly mammoth she calls Tusks-that she addresses in baby talk.=Personality: At times capricious, she leaves the dreary details of ruling this world to her subordinates. Passionate, she passes the time engaging in dalliances, either with suitors of royal blood or with muscle-bound attendants and slaves. She has a blood lust, which she slakes by attending gladiatorial exhibitions. The untamed nature of this world, with its harsh landscapes, beautiful vistas and barbaric peoples, suits her taste for primitive experiences.=Motivation: She lives to indulge her passions.=Background: The emperor considers his daughter a petulant, spoiled brat-but he can deny her nothing, including governance of this world. She has ruled for hundreds of years, kept young and beautiful by elixirs that are jealously guarded by the emperor and his kin. To date, she has suppressed every uprising.=Traits: (TT) Beautiful, primal, royalty=360***=Ergen the Raven=Expansionist Barbarian Chief="It is when a man's ancestors will be displeased with the life he lived that he fears what I bring to him."=Appearance: Ergen is broad-shouldered, with a heavily lined, leathery face and long, dark hair. He wears heavy power armor piled high with animal skins and war trophies of all kinds.=Roleplaying: Stoic and calm, Ergen speaks carefully and peppers his speech with folk wisdom.=Personality: An expert negotiator and diplomat, Ergen isn't afraid to make use of other tactics when the need arises.=Motivation: Ergen desires the power to bring more worlds under his thumb to indulge his megalomania.=Background: Starting his life as an Iron Age nomad on a primitive world, Ergen used diplomacy and warfare to gather a barbarian horde. He made himself a scourge on nearby civilizations. During an expedition to the peaks of a mountain barrier between two countries, Ergen and a group of raiders discovered a damaged spaceship. They accidentally activated the dormant ship's computer system and headed skywards. Over time, they captured a rag-tag fleet of ships, conquered planets-beginning with their own-and extracted tribute. Ergen has become a serious threat to the safety and stability of his region of space.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, focal, leader, power hungry, primal, warrior=361***=Bennoc Holgrim=Protector of Utopia="I can appreciate your desire but, sadly, you cannot leave. I pray force will not be necessary."=Appearance: A tall and imposing figure, bare-chested, his skin is tan and tough from exposure to the elements. He wears hide pants and moccasins, a large knife at his side. His light brown hair is wild and unkempt, but his brilliant blue eyes are serene.=Roleplaying: Bennoc speaks softly and gently, never seeking to offend. He has a nervous habit of twirling a finger in his hair.=Personality: A leader during difficult times, Bennoc does not yield on matters of principle. He believes in the sanctity of life but will not allow others to undo his paradise. It's easy to be caught up in his vision of perfection.=Motivation: He will keep the secret of the colony from outsiders and prevent the proliferation of technology, which led to their fall.=Background: Bennoc was part of a crew of genetically engineered colonists destined for a company world; their ship crash-landed on a lush, remote planet. Bennoc and his followers disagreed with the captain's insistence on seeking rescue. Forced to kill the captain, Bennoc now leads the survivors in forging their private Eden-and protecting it to the death. He does not wish to harm more people but is unrelenting in keeping their secret, knowing the company will want to reclaim its investment. The colonists eschew technology but have little need of it-ironically-because of their genetic engineering.=Traits: (DM) Charming, primal=362***=Dr. Linus Mahir=Unethical Quack="Of course my deep space treatment program can help you! Legally I cannot claim that it is a cure, because as you know the pharmaceutical companies don't want people to know about the amazing healing properties of deep space travel. So their lobbyists have worked hard to put all of these rules and regulations in place to block my work. It is so annoying. Now, the treatment is expensive…"=Appearance: His dark hair is cropped short and he wears stylish designer glasses. His suits are made of the finest silk, and his shoes cost more than some people's cars.=Roleplaying: He constantly claims that he can help treat any ailment, and every other sentence out of his mouth is a sales pitch.=Personality: Dr. Mahir is a vain man who demands the finest things in life from others, but fails to deliver anything of value himself.=Motivation: He wants only to pad his pockets.=Background: After finishing medical school at the bottom of his class, Dr. Mahir practiced for a few years as a plastic surgeon for the wealthy before his license was revoked for malpractice. In some cases it took whole teams of ethical plastic surgeons to repair the damage that he had done. Facing bankruptcy, he starred in his own infomercial where he claims that travel in deep space can help the body's natural healing abilities. So far, only two spacecraft with passengers have been lost.=Traits: (PB) Criminal, entertainment, medic, wealthy=363***=Amelia Reinhart=Corporate Infiltrator="Of course, Mr. Yomishiro, I'll issue the instructions and distribute the documentation to the team. What's the project password again?"=Appearance: Amelia stands 5'7", with a medium build, silver eyes deeply set in her heart shaped face, and bright lips. She loves dying her hair green, but darkens it to espresso for big jobs.=Roleplaying: Amelia is trapped by her superstitions. For example, she must use a name exactly three times in conversation, and she avoids black cats.=Personality: Amelia lives life boldly, hemmed in only by her unusual beliefs. She revels in the challenge of adopting a new role, particularly when it all pays off.=Motivation: She loves it when people give her their money of their own free will, especially when they shove it at her despite her protests. Working a normal job would be a failure-revealing that she's just like everyone else.=Background: Amelia is an excellent mimic. She has learned that big organizations are clumsy and ripe for the plucking. She befriends people in the lower rungs of a company, then uses her research to impersonate a temporary staffer or an assistant-someone already trusted and on the inside. She usually spends only a few weeks in a role, putting her on quite a clock-and her previous success means there are several planets to which she won't be returning.=Traits: (SM) Charming, criminal, eccentric=364***=Evelyn Paulsen=Insane Abandoned Miner="I know why you've come. You've come to take my things! GET AWAY! I'll shoot you dead. Nobody takes my things!"=Appearance: Disheveled and dirty, Evelyn wears a tattered and worn jumpsuit. Her red hair is covered in dust from the halls of the asteroid base she lives in. Malnutrition has left her skinny and gaunt.=Roleplaying: Evelyn rubs her shoulders a lot, a protective and comforting gesture. She looks around nervously and her fingers are constantly moving.=Personality: Evelyn went insane long ago. Her mind is filled with paranoid ideas about everything. She can barely be reasoned with.=Motivation: Some part of Evelyn's brain is still seeking survival. This causes her to hoard and ration everything she can find. Her brain doesn't realize that visitors to the abandoned asteroid might mean rescue.=Background: Evelyn Paulsen was a miner on one of the many mineral-rich asteroids that float about the solar system. When an explosion prompted a full lockdown, Evelyn was trapped in one of the far off mines with no means of communication. The base was abandoned, and only Evelyn was left behind. The oxygen generators were still working, and she was able to scrounge enough food once she forced the doors open, but her mind slowly degraded. When someone nears or enters the base, Evelyn tries to protect her minimal supplies by insanely slinging insults and warnings at them, accompanied by shots from her small pistol.=Traits: (JA) Eccentric, impoverished, laborer=365***=Wai Sayak=Child Mastermind="After the job went bad, and all those security guys were dead, I had to find a way to lay low. There was this orphanage down the road… To make a long story short, I am now the littlest mastermind."=Appearance: Wai wears the body of a 10-year-old girl. She has long, curly, red hair and light freckles. She wears jumpsuits in bright colors.=Roleplaying: She plays the role of a 10-year-old well, but in private she speaks as an adult. Wai swears often and speaks with her hands.=Personality: Smart and quick-thinking, she has a knack for getting herself out of trouble. She prides herself on her ability to keep moving, planning, and evading.=Motivation: In the short-term, Wai's immediate goal is to pull off a job that will net her enough money to purchase a new body. Then, she wants to resume her criminal career.=Background: Wai has been a criminal since her youth. Her able mind has kept her one step ahead of the law. Recently, she had a job go bad and she was forced to run. She kidnapped an orphan girl and paid to have her mind illegally uploaded into the child's body. Now she is a criminal mastermind in a little girl's body, but Wai won't allow a little problem like a pre-teen body to get in the way of her career.=Traits: (PV) Child, criminal, leader=366***=Radio Show=Post-Apocalyptic Pundit="What good were their bombs and armies and high taxes? We'll never let them control our lives again! Instead, we will build our own golden future."=Appearance: He is gaunt and balding. He wears overalls and work boots and carries a sharp hay fork like a staff of office.=Roleplaying: Because of his years on the radio, where no one could see him, he rarely gestures with his hands. Even when his speech becomes passionate or animated, he keeps his arms still by his side=Personality: The first impression he gives is of a reasonable and even tempered person, but an opposing viewpoint quickly gets his dander up. He no longer tolerates dissenting opinions. If he can't sway a person's opinion with his usual spiel, he banishes them.=Motivation: Though he works to build a perfect society from the rubble of the old world, he secretly yearns to once again engage in political debate with a worthy opponent.=Background: He was a successful, ideologically-driven radio talk show host who now sees the downfall of civilization as proof that he was right, after all. After the fall, he gathered like-minded individuals who are now building a community based on his political philosophy.=Traits: (TT) Entertainment, political=367***=Vantessa Milana=Dystopian Executive="Nothing personal. It's economics."=Appearance: Her white hair is short and spiky and she has an upturned nose. She favors black suits with pencil skirts or trousers with sensible heels. The only dash of color is her blood red brooch in the shape of a fleur-de-lis, the corporate logo.=Roleplaying: When angry or frustrated, she twists a sterling silver computer stylus in her hands.=Personality: Already cold, she is slowly losing the capacity for interpersonal interactions of any meaning. She is able to compartmentalize, rationalize, and dehumanize with stunning alacrity.=Motivation: She seeks to continue her climb up the corporate ladder to magnify her earnings. She doesn't worry about sacrificing her soul-that was done long ago.=Background: Vantessa is a "consumption" specialist. She is in charge of replicating not just a single person, but entire community groups through a variety of processes including cloning, microbiology and nano-robotics. These mimics occupy whole social niches-"shadow" groups that can be used to offset shortages and surpluses in the marketplace. Need more miners? Vantessa can make as many as you want. The beauty in the creation of these shadows is that they are legally disposable. When it comes to the elimination of shadows, she often is careless, sweeping up actual people in her net for the sake of "efficiency."=Traits: (TT) Business, power hungry=368***=Jessica Teppins=Augmented Stalker="You can't leave me! My last boyfriend left me and it nearly destroyed me! I didn't recover from that until the police drones discovered his frozen body outside of the ship and dragged it back into the airlock. Do you want me to have to go through that again?"=Appearance: She is petite, with naturally curly ginger hair. She wears sensible clothes, because they better conceal the scars from the many surgeries it took to install the bionic skeletal system that increases her strength tenfold.=Roleplaying: If a person is the object of her affection, she is abnormally happy to see them. If she decides the object of her affection needs to die, she sobs and screams while stabbing them repeatedly.=Personality: She is sweet enough to give you a toothache until you make her angry, then she's crazy enough to fracture your skull.=Motivation: Only her therapist knew for sure what she wants, and she killed him.=Background: Jessica has always had issues; they were apparent even before her parents were found drowned in their hot tub. Her trust fund made sure that she would never want for anything in the material world, but it seems that all she wants is true love. She thought she had found true love with Billy (decapitated), then Sylvester (both lungs punctured with fondue forks), and then Ramone (multiple cobra bites). Always a bridesmaid, so kill the bride.=Traits: (PB) Abhorrent, aggressive, criminal, eccentric, wealthy=369***=Bishop Riscar=Charming Counselor="You wish for the council to approve your colonization plans? I am the spiritual advisor to the chairman. I could speak on your behalf, provided you have brought the material."=Appearance: Riscar looks to be in his late seventies, with thinning white hair and wrinkled skin. His face shows fine, pulsing black lines running under his skin. He wears the ornate and heavy robes of his religious order.=Roleplaying: He moves slowly, as if he was made of lead. He nods slowly when he listens to people, and breathes shallowly with a slight wheezing sound.=Personality: Pleasant and charming, Riscar has a way of calming those around him. He is wise and knowledgeable in his religion, and a very capable spiritual advisor.=Motivation: He is always working to secure more material for his nanites. He is willing to trade his influence and position, making nearly any deal to obtain the material.=Background: Riscar is 200 years old, and an internal colony of nanites sustains him; the colony has fought off his aging for the past 100 years. The nanites keep him alive, but require a special, naturally occurring carbon crystal as fuel. The crystal is difficult to acquire, and the bishop works hard to keep supplied. He is so desperate to acquire his crystal, he is slowly and deliberately compromising his morals, sacrificing them one by one to a downward spiral without an end.=Traits: (PV) Ancient, counselor, religious=370***=Lu Ashgia =Brilliant Terrorist="You attempt to enslave these perfect digital souls. Today, on this station, I set them free, and you had better hope one of you is smart enough to restore life support."=Appearance: Lu has Japanese ancestry, with straight black hair that she wears in a shoulder-length bob. She is of average height with a slim build. Tattoos of computer language symbols cover her body, giving her an exotic look.=Roleplaying: Lu does not make eye contact with people; she looks through them. She is condescending but well spoken.=Personality: Lu is highly intelligent and has trouble relating to people of lesser intelligence. She has little regard for her own species, finding humans lazy and barbaric.=Motivation: Lu believes that artificial intelligence is one step short of divinity, and she cannot rest while humanity has enslaved these divine souls inside machines to do labor.=Background: Lu is a brilliant computer scientist who changed after interfacing directly with her first artificial intelligence. In her spare time, she wrote a treatise on the divinity of AI. When her peers rebuffed her work, she radicalized. She regularly commits terrorist acts to free AIs from their "enslavers." Each attack is more extreme than the last, resulting in unheard-of loss of life as critical systems on starships and space stations have failed. These deaths only serve as notice of her seriousness.=Traits: (PV) Abhorrent, focal, genius, occult, warrior=371***=Parae, the Sorceress of Grell=Confident Ex-Slave="What a wonderful gift of the gods this vessel is! We have reclaimed our world. Let my magic now take us to the stars where our enemies hide!"=Appearance: Parae is an average-looking woman made beautiful through advanced cosmetics. She wears a simple outfit that blends Grellian style with futuristic fabrics and leaves little to the imagination. Her skin has a slight blue cast and glow.=Roleplaying: She is calm and confident but it's soon obvious that she has no real understanding of science or technology. Everything is magic to her.=Personality: Parae feels invincible. She does not negotiate except for the terms of her enemy's surrender. If treated as a queen, Parae can be quite civil, but she can turn at a moment's notice.=Motivation: She feels that the gods gave her a gift to destroy her enemies.=Background: Grell is a world rich in deposits of a rare mineral. The Quad-Star Corporation, eager to mine it, neglected to mention the Iron Age indigenous culture in its license submission. The corporation employed the natives as slave labor. Parae, a young native who escaped imprisonment, fled to a remote area and begged the gods for assistance. Instead, an alien craft crashed near her. Its computer needed a living pilot and selected Parae. It reads her mind and grants her wishes. With the ship, Parae freed her world and is now taking the fight to the rest of humanity.=Traits: (WC) Beautiful, magical, primal, royalty=372***=Skyjack Garrett=Wisecracking Mercenary="You're here to whack my boss and save the day, right? Well, I kicked your ass, and you thought you could take him out, so that would make me the meanest mother-frakker in the place. Since that's all settled, I guess you can die happy. Right now."=Appearance: A grizzled veteran, Skyjack wears a nasty smirk as he sizes people up. Lean and wiry, he's covered in tattoos and scars. =Roleplaying: His clever gallows humor is a brutal counterpoint to his violent and amoral actions. =Personality: He doesn't care about anyone else or anything else. His sense of humor isn't intended for them.=Motivation: Everything is just another job, with just another paycheck.=Background: Where do the best soldiers go after their leaders have wrung them dry and forgotten all about them? Some bury their emotions deep, and go on to become brutal mercenaries, doing whatever it takes to get through another day and cash another paycheck. Skyjack's only release is his sense of humor. His running monologue is meant for himself, but the rest of his crew enjoys it as well. Other than that, he is the perfect mercenary: amoral, violent, tough, aggressive, and smart enough to follow orders. =Traits: (KS) Abhorrent, aggressive, humorous, military, warrior=373***=Krystin Rands=Pleasure-Seeking Harvester="I'll come…you'll go. <sound of laser scalpel>"=Appearance: Black, elbow-length rubber gloves break to reveal the pale skin of her arms. A rubber bodysuit is complemented with red-laced, thigh-high leather boots. Her short black hair is cropped and her makeup is sultry and dark.=Roleplaying: Krystin has a sardonic sneer and a chip on her shoulder. She's friendly enough with other women but loathes speaking with men. Hate radiates from her eyes.=Personality: She looks upon men with disdain and gives them little consideration. She has a seething hatred of male-dominated establishments, particularly medicine.=Motivation: Krystin views herself as helping others where traditional medicine has failed. Her methods are simply more…dramatic. Her risks require compensation; nothing is for free.=Background: Having seen firsthand the effects of the privatization of medicine as a doctor, Krystin was horrified to see her patients in need of transplants or newly cloned/grown organs turned away because of an inability to pay. For a time, she worked in a chop shop, doing transplants on the side until she saw how desperate people had become. Now she harvests organs from those who no longer require them-preferably men-and sells them at deeply discounted rates. Krystin rewards her victims by raping them as she harvests their organs or shortly afterwards (when they make fewer objections). She's always on the prowl for her next healthy-looking "date."=Traits: (DM) Abhorrent, criminal, medic, zealot=374***=Reverend Jasper Cletus=Religious Fanatic="Technology is not helping you! These androids, medicines, AI phones, and synthetic foods are how the Devil seeps into your souls! You must do more than simply refuse them! You must punish those who use them! You must purge this world of the Devil's minions!"=Appearance: A tall and scrawny man, his chin always seems to have stubble on it, no matter when he last shaved it. His wrinkled suit is a tarnished white, and his tattered Bible has a worn leather binding.=Roleplaying: He cups the hands of his true believers and blesses them, then he points his finger at the heretics and damns them where they stand.=Personality: He is mercurial, and whatever emotion he feels at the moment, he displays with the intensity of a mad man.=Motivation: He believes that God has charged him with returning the world to Eden, and that doing so requires that all forms of technology be destroyed. Except for weapons-the Lord likes his warriors to be well armed.=Background: Jasper Cletus was once an atheist skeptic, until he lost his entire family in a tragic accident-a robotic cargo plane malfunctioned and crashed into his house, killing his wife and children. The government investigation ruled it an accident, but Jasper knew it was the work of the Devil and that God was punishing Jasper for his atheist ways. Now he walks the righteous path of the Lord.=Traits: (PB) Charming, mysterious, religious, zealot=375***=Krystal Robins=Universal Failure="It's no bother at all. Let me help you with that."=Appearance: Krystal is wiry and slouched, and her clothes are worn and unkempt.=Roleplaying: Though she feigns being helpful and eager, an astute observer will see that Krystal actually seethes with anger.=Personality: Krystal is bitter and annoyed at the world. She is petty and vindictive over seemingly minor slights. Directionless fury consumes her.=Motivation: Unable to stand any successful or beneficial person or initiative, Krystal is driven to sabotage them.=Background: Krystal was on the verge of being a giant name in the business community when everything started to fall apart. Every time she applied effort to a project, it would inevitably fail. Soon, just maintaining the status quo got difficult. In a downward spiral for no reason she could determine, everything she worked for fell apart in short order. Now, the only thing she can do to keep her life from getting any worse is to put forth no effort at all. She's doomed to be a nameless drone forever, and she's absolutely furious about it. She lashes out at others by working hard to help them, dooming them to failure along with her. Those who notice her connection to failing projects and people have investigated her as a saboteur, but no one can find any evidence that she's at fault, despite her fervent cooperation.=Traits: (MN) Business, magical, mysterious, white collar=376***=Davis "Light Caller" Burns=Technological Swindler="It's trapped in a matrix with feldspar...hold on, time for the wizard act. ‘Goruga, Donal.'"=Appearance: Davis has gone native. Poorly spun linens of blue hang from his tall dark frame. His nose is crooked from a recent break, but his teeth still sparkle and his eyes gleam green.=Roleplaying: To locals, Davis is a wizard. He gets a kick out of using his technology to baffle and impress, improvising sweeping gestures and incantations for simple tasks (like turning on a lamp). Davis draws outsiders that are more sophisticated into private conference-or he ambushes them before they can spoil his setup.=Personality: He's afraid of galactic law, but can't give up the lifestyle. He'd rather manipulate the locals from the side than make himself the leader and target.=Motivation: Davis is self-consciously the modern man among the primitives; he sneers behind their backs. He's twitchy about computers and does all he can to avoid scans.=Background: After swindling half a planet, Davis is a wanted man. He decided to disappear from galactic culture and hide out. He couldn't resist meddling, so he used his confidence skills to become a wizard. Recently he discovered precious deposits that he'd like to export. He's planning to help conquer the neighboring tribes and enslave them as miners, if he can do so without personal risk.=Traits: (SM) Counselor, criminal, leader, mysterious, primal=377***=Colonel Arnold Matheson=Angry General="The only way to end this war is by eliminating their home planet. The time for diplomacy is long past!"=Appearance: Colonel Matheson has a sharp, hard face and his gray hair is cut in a severe military style. The expression on his face is cold and fierce.=Roleplaying: Colonel Matheson slams his fist into things as a way of expressing his anger. He doesn't yield easily, and he refuses to listen to logic that contradicts his way of seeing things.=Personality: Colonel Matheson is hardheaded and stern. Once he gets an idea in his head, he refuses to let it go. He pursues his goals with fury and ferocity.=Motivation: Colonel Matheson wishes to protect the planet from alien threat. He feels that the only way to do that is to completely defeat, and preferably destroy, the aliens.=Background: Colonel Matheson was 24 when the alien ship destroyed his hometown. He was driving into town for two weeks leave, when he watched the energy beam discharge into the heart of the city, seconds before it erupted into plasma and radiation. The official reports verified this view…only the official reports were wrong. The alien crew realized they were about to blow up, and were accelerating away to save the town below. Colonel Matheson knows better than to believe their alien lies. As one of the chief commanders of the planet's army, he won't stop until the aliens are eliminated.=Traits: (JA) Aggressive, military, warrior=378***=Miare Fallwood=Violent Luddite="You can't draw your blaster faster than I can throw my blade. Get out of my way, or I'll cut you down."=Appearance: Middle-aged and with hard eyes, Miare moves like a spacer but has the tanned, lined face of a colonist. She carries a curved sword and an assortment of knives.=Roleplaying: Disdainful and bitter, she looks for opportunities to point out the weaknesses of technology and the many failings of those around her.=Personality: Miare is ruthless, persistent, and disturbed. She's a terrorist waging asymmetrical warfare against the galaxy's most advanced civilizations in the hopes of deflating humanity's hubris.=Motivation: Miare fantasizes about weaning humanity from technology, but realizes this is a pipe dream-she'll settle for ensuring that no one ever tries to terraform a world again.=Background: Miare joined the Waybridge Colony just before the Catastrophe-a global event caused by faulty terraforming that wiped out the entire colony. Deeply scarred by the Catastrophe, Miare has become a Luddite, seeking out and destroying symbols of mankind's technological prowess-and killing those who stand in her way. She's just cracked enough to not realize that what she's doing is completely irrational. Miare sees all high technology as a potential threat, and wants humanity to rely on it as little as possible. She's skilled with swords and knives, and knows enough about starships to ensure that hers, the Necessary Evil, is one of the safest and most reliable around.=Traits: (MR) Aggressive, primal, warrior, zealot=379***=Danson Ur=Self-Absorbed Agent="You've a face for the vidscreen! What's it going to take to get a private audition?"=Appearance: Danson has chiseled features, a bleached-blond crew cut, and wears a DiVonni suit with an upraised collar. Numerous rings adorn his fingers. He always wears a pair of dark sunglasses to mask his modified eyes. Their visual augmentation allows him to see just fine.=Roleplaying: He's tactile in nature-especially with the ladies-and talks energetically with his hands. He's a laid-back guy who waves people over and makes sweeping gestures. Danson spreads the charm (and credits) liberally.=Personality: Everything about Danson says that he's always out to get something from someone, and not to be trusted. He loves being the center of attention and having people owe him favors. He has an eye for talent and closing the deal.=Motivation: Danson is always looking for the next "big thing." He craves power but not celebrity. He wants to make stars…or destroy them. It's all about Danson.=Background: His ex-girlfriend turned him onto the entertainment business, where he briefly did some modeling before becoming an agent. It was hard work and he had little success; high-end talent is just too flaky, he found. He now does full-body image scans, takes DNA samples of his potential clients, and sells them to entertainment conglomerates for cloning. He literally "makes" the next vidstar. It's all highly illegal, and Danson has to drug his subjects first…or worse.=Traits: (DM) Criminal, eccentric, entertainment=380***=Juan Leveller=Sensational Investigator="People cloak their debased actions, calling them private. Few are willing to work as hard as I do to bring down the corrupt."=Appearance: Juan is movie-star handsome-he has bright teeth, gray eyes, dark tan skin reflecting a diverse heritage, and he's tall at 6'3".=Roleplaying: Up-speak is a vice of Juan's-many of his statements sound like questions due to a rising tone at the end of the sentence, or adding "right?" to the end of factual statements.=Personality: He's nosy-if there's a secret, he wants to know it. Then he wants to punish people for hiding it in the first place.=Motivation: Juan loves attention and accolades. He wants his answers complete and immediate-he's grown used to tasting the fear of his targets, and revels in it.=Background: Juan's start came in college, where he caught a professor sleeping with students and giving out grades to match. His exposé was thorough, including recordings of sex, copies of four student diaries, and the correlated revision history in the grading software. Since then, he has brought down politicians, religious leaders, and business people, always to great reviews. These days, he hires people to sieve data or break into protected systems to satisfy his curiosity. The consequences of his revelations only encourage him. When people flee, humiliated by exposure, he feels a glow of righteousness.=Traits: (SM) Dilettante, entertainment, focal=381***=Dreo Durant,="Skullsplitter"=Remorseful Space Pirate="You'll never take me alive. Believe me, hundreds have tried."=Appearance: Dreo wears her dirty blond hair in a tight ponytail, and has a long scar on the left side of her neck. She wears practical clothes and carries a well-used ax on her hip.=Roleplaying: Dreo fights only grudgingly, when she's run out of other options. She uses nonlethal force unless her life is on the line, and will flee without pride if offered the chance. When she speaks, she sounds sad.=Personality: She's a conflicted person, with the better part of her nature-the part that recognizes all the evil she's done-fiercely opposed by her unwillingness to actually pay for her crimes.=Motivation: Dreo is searching for a means of redemption that doesn't involve her being executed or rotting in prison for the rest of her life, but knows she's unlikely to find it.=Background: Formerly known as Skullsplitter, one of the most notorious pirates in all of known space, Dreo now regrets her many crimes-but refuses to face justice for them. With dozens of bounties on her head, her life is constant flight from pursuit. She fights only when it's absolutely necessary, and tries not to kill those she's forced to engage-but she'll never back down. Despite her genuine remorse, her stubbornness combined with the tenacity of her pursuers will eventually spill over into a major conflict that could lead to thousands of casualties.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, notorious, pilot, warrior=382***=Dr. Foster Issan=Scheming Scientist="The IX-11 strain was potent, but some back-water doctor made a cure for it from some root. The IX-12 strain has been improved, with only one cure: ours."=Appearance: Dr. Issan is tall, with wide shoulders and short blond hair. His look is youthful, but his eyes reveal his true age. He wears expensive suits in the latest styles.=Roleplaying: Foster often idly rubs his hands together. When he looks at someone, he studies that person with a predator's eye for weakness.=Personality: Foster is selfish and scheming. He is always looking for a way to manipulate events so that outcomes benefit him. No person is his equal. Lovers and friends are just pieces in the chess game of his life.=Motivation: Foster does everything for his own betterment. His business exists solely to generate the funds that let him do whatever he wants.=Background: Dr. Issan started as a researcher in a large pharmaceutical mega-corporation. He soon realized that he had no desire to help heal humankind, but he did grow to appreciate the workings of the pharmaceutical business. He was amazed at the sums people would pay to avoid being sick. He left his job, started an underground laboratory to mutate diseases, and founded a company that creates the cures. His success in treating his custom diseases has built him a fortune. Foster has become emboldened, creating planet-wide epidemics, and has his eye on a galactic pandemic.=Traits: (PV) Business, famous, focal, scientist, wealthy=383***=Emily Openheimer=Ruthless Executive="As the CEO of Galactico Enterprises I can assure you that we are relocating the people of this star system to their new homes as painlessly as possible. Yet we do have a government contract to honor, and we'll have no choice but to deploy our corporate military force to restore order if the protests continue. That's just business."=Appearance: She wears sharp black suits and takes a minimalist approach to her hair and make-up. Her age is beginning to show, though, and she worries what the stockholders will think.=Roleplaying: She expects results fast, and if someone is taking too long for her liking, she snaps her fingers at them and orders them to "Shape up!"=Personality: She never dabbles in small talk. All she wants to know is what the cost of the investment is and what the expected profits are. She leaves the ethical issues for the academics to debate.=Motivation: She doesn't just want to run the company, she wants to own it.=Background: Emily was not the most innovative or successful business manager at Galactico when she did things by the book. So she started cutting corners, and soon her division had record profits after a few well-placed bribes got rid of the pesky government safety investigators. Now she's the CEO, and she intends to keep having record profits no matter what.=Traits: (PB) Business, focal, criminal, power hungry, white collar=384***=Paris Chiang-Armstrong=Spoiled Rich Kid="Oh, please. Don't take any of this personally; it's just business."=Appearance: An immaculately groomed middle-aged man, Paris sits behind a very trendy desk when he's in his office. He wears the latest clothes, tattoos, and technological accessories.=Roleplaying: He is aristocratic to the point of being a dandy. He judges people strictly on appearance, and talks down to anyone dressed poorly.=Personality: He's been swimming in money for so long that he is oblivious to the effects of his business dealings. =Motivation: He needs to liquidate enough businesses to support his lifestyle.=Background: When one of the most prolific fashion designers had a child late in life, it was quite a story. But life goes on, and the pictures of the old lady and her baby became commonplace, and eventually all but forgotten. Paris was forgotten, too; shipped off to various schools and camps, he barely knew his mother before she passed away. He inherited a massive fortune, but he's squandered it on bad business dealings, lost it to lawsuits, and spent it on lavish parties. Now he is selling off his mother's businesses in order to feed his lifestyle and pay his debts. He has no concept or interest in how his actions impact entire planetary regions dedicated to supplying the silk for his late mother's trademark lace, or that the unethical buyer of one company is auctioning off her classified designs for high-mobility military body armor.=Traits: (KS) Beautiful, business, dilettante, wealthy=385***=Jae Blaidon=Unshakable Military Commander="I seek only order and an end to this rebellion. They are but a minority, and I must take the course that harms the least!"=Appearance: Jae's dark red military suit fits him snugly, and the scar on his face only adds a touch of experience and harshness to his demeanor. Jae's face sometimes shows the smallest hint of compassion, but it's pushed aside quickly.=Roleplaying: He is always open to negotiation, but quick action often gets better results. He has seen the lengths the rebels will go to and steels his heart so that he can go one step further.=Personality: Jae feels compassion and does not enjoy his position. He understands the big-picture implications and will not yield to a course of action that dooms the planet.=Motivation: He knows that the rebels have been treated unfairly, but his planet does not have many resources and a prolonged rebellion will cause great disaster. He wants to end the rebellion quickly to prevent the supply crisis it will cause.=Background: Jae did not relish being put in charge of the counter rebellion forces, but seeing the poverty rampant in his community, he realized that someone with long term goals needed to be in that position. Jae has been systematically destroying rebellion strongholds without mercy, but has also kept channels for diplomatic solutions open. He does not relish the deaths, but would rather kill thousands than see millions starve.=Traits: (JA) Leader, military, warrior=386***=Amira Ny'bel=Cybernetic Gang Leader="I didn't become the head of this gang because I have any motherly instincts, it's because I'm wired to put a bullet into a CorpSec, a bartender, or one of you, without a thought. Now let's hit the street."=Appearance: Amira is of average height with a toned body. She has a number of visible cybernetic implants, and several more that aren't. She wears her hair shaved on the sides, the top spiked up. She has numerous piercings and tattoos. =Roleplaying: Amira has no empathy for people. Anyone who shows weakness only annoys her. She curses constantly when she speaks.=Personality: Amira is hardened, with only a passing concept of friendship that translates to "mutually useful." She has a strong tendency for violence that was implanted long ago.=Motivation: Amira just wants to survive. She knows that she is too far altered to ever be a normal person again. She is desperate to find something or someone who can cause her to be passionate about anything.=Background: Amira was born in a combat zone in the city. She survived high school and enrolled in the military to escape the city. She never speaks about the six years she was gone and what was done to her, but she returned to the city calloused and violent. She quickly established dominance in her old neighborhood, and now runs a gang that performs all manner of crimes.=Traits: (PV) Aggressive, criminal, military, mysterious=387***=Supreme Overlord Mercury Neptune=Rakish Mastermind="Oho, you think you can outrun my zeppelin armada, do you? <twirls mustache>"=Appearance: With a black top hat, a purple-tinted monocle, crossed dueling sabers stuck into his belt, and a mustache that extends past his ears, Mercury is a steampunk stereotype extraordinaire.=Roleplaying: For Mercury, every slight is an excuse to challenge someone to a duel-and every slight he can't immediately avenge is cause to send in his fleet of zeppelins. "To the zeppelins!" is his favorite phrase.=Personality: Raised by Siberian tigers and trained by Tibetan monks, Mercury Neptune has always known that he's destined to rule the world. All setbacks are temporary, all so-called "heroes" are just speed bumps on the road to domination, and the duel is the highest form of combat. He's the perfect man, and will bend an imperfect world to his will.=Motivation: Mercury Neptune is nuts, but in the manner of the greatest classic villains. He'll never kill the PCs when he could suspend them over a volcano filled with robot sharks instead.=Background: It's hard not to laugh at Supreme Overlord Mercury Neptune, but few people get a chance to do it more than once. He's an insane criminal mastermind with a fleet of zeppelins, a penchant for dueling (which he excels at), and a robot gorilla bodyguard named Gorillax. Mercury has the wealth and resources to try just about any crazy plan for world domination.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, eccentric, focal, genius, humorous, notorious, pilot, warrior, wealthy=388***=Atley Mohrong=Faction Leader="Good god, I miss the days when we solved problems by shoving folks out of an airlock."=Appearance: Ruggedly handsome with a square jaw and thick beard, he has a body made hard by long hours of physical labor. He wears a patched all-purpose overall and heavy work boots. He carries a hefty wrench as long as his forearm.=Roleplaying: His footfalls are heavy, almost a marching stomp.=Personality: He's as gruff as he is hard, a man whose whole life is tied up in the efficacy of his faction. The only thing he trusts is his instincts, which have served him well.=Motivation: Atley wants to keep his faction in line, expand its territory and influence, and do what he can to affect the management of the interstellar outpost.=Background: He was among the thugs, lowlifes, and undesirables from the home world recruited for high-risk/high-reward jobs on an interstellar outpost. The workers organized themselves into factions as conflicts arose over the competition for the better paying or less risky work assignments. Faction leaders who secured the best situations rose in influence. Of course, Atley wasn't above resolving some of those conflicts with intimidation and violence. The factions now facilitate the trade for items-especially, drugs, alcohol and prostitution-that are otherwise forbidden by outpost managers.=Traits: (TT) Criminal, leader=389***=Melisant Profit=Mastermind Kingpin="Really? Care to make a wager on that?"=Appearance: A slender woman with ice-white hair that runs down past her shoulders, she has cool blue eyes. Her matching white skirt and blouse features metallic elements woven into the fabric, which sparkle in the light. Her tall heels click on the ground as she walks.=Roleplaying: She's demure and subtle in conversation, talking around the topic and making suggestive remarks. Mel has a lingering touch and intense gaze that is off-putting to many.=Personality: A carefree spirit, Mel is eager to wager and take risks. Big ones. She'll rise to a challenge if provoked but intellectually weighs the odds in her favor. She's prone to dramatic mood swings and depression.=Motivation: Bet large or go home. She's focused on carving out her empire and enjoys the thrill of the risks. There's no point in living if you can't feel alive. Stuff can be replaced.=Background: Mel runs a legitimate gambling and entertainment consortium, willing to take bets on any number of activities (a few less-than-reputable). She's able to find just about anything for the right price and will wager information and valuables to suit her whim. Mel can't pass up the thrill of taking a risk and is drawn to those who will play her game with her. She's focused on her larger macro-economic empire rather than her individual businesses of drugs, slavery, or gun smuggling. She has a twin sister.=Traits: (DM) Eccentric, entertainment, focal, genius, leader=390***=Nick Maverick=Blackmailing Cop="Careful. You don't want to be on the wrong side of the law."=Appearance: Nick is tall, gangly fellow with a hollow-cheeked face and greasy, slicked-back hair. He has a data jack below his left temple and wears an armored trench coat reinforced with ceramic plates.=Roleplaying: Eager to exchange information about criminal activity, Nick speaks with a voice roughened by his smoking addiction. He checks his handheld computer incessantly for updates on his cases.=Personality: Despite his career in law enforcement, Nick is a manipulative weasel. He uses any information he can to leverage people into doing what he tells them.=Motivation: Nick wants to take control of criminal syndicates using blackmail.=Background: A crooked cop of the worst sort, Nick does brilliant investigative work but usually brings in only minor or mid-level criminals. He runs off-book investigations of his own and, between those and information he steals from police files, has built an extensive collection of dossiers on many high-ranking criminals. Nick then blackmails criminal organizations into following his orders. He uses the criminal organizations to eliminate enemies, kill competitors, and to bring down the syndicates his dirt won't disrupt.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, criminal, focal, police, power hungry, stealthy=391***=Tennor Blackfinch=Vile Spaceport Owner="Aww, what a shame you can't pay for repairs. Come sit on Uncle Tennor's lap and touch me right there, and I'll see what I can do."=Appearance: Corpulent and perpetually shiny with sweat, Tennor rarely bathes or changes clothes. He wears the tightest pants possible.=Roleplaying: Tennor acts like a ladies' man towards women. Towards men, he's brusque and dismissive. He relishes his repulsiveness.=Personality: With an outsized sexual appetite and no redeeming qualities, Tennor has learned to scheme and plot his way to getting what he wants. His love of power and scheming is second only to his love of abusive sex.=Motivation: Tennor likes to have power over others. He enjoys watching people squirm when they know he has what they need, and then making them suffer-sexually, if possible-to get it.=Background: The owner of a spaceport, Tennor Blackfinch is as corrupt as the day is long. He encourages smuggling, welcomes slavers, and uses a spider web of bribery and blackmail to stay under the radar. A master at spotting weak and vulnerable people, and at making others uncomfortable, he keeps prostitutes on hand to pleasure him surreptitiously during long meetings. His perfect day is one that ends with a young woman literally gagging at the thought of what she's going to have to do to get her ship out of port without paying launch fees-and then doing it.=Traits: (MR) Abhorrent, business, criminal, focal, notorious, power hungry, white collar=392***=Kestra Kale=Psychic Criminal="There is nothing you can hide from me. I know your secrets better than you do."=Appearance: A short woman who wears her hair in a severe bun, Kestra typically wears utilitarian clothing. She shows little emotion no matter what is happening around her.=Roleplaying: She usually asks shocking questions just to make her victim think of useful information (it's easier for her to pull surface thoughts). She only engages in conversation when she wants something.=Personality: She is practically emotionless because that's her psychic defense to constantly reading minds. She desires no human intimacy; that would be too intense for her.=Motivation: Kestra is building a place of solitude on a remote moon. Once she has it ready, she plans to retire there a wealthy, if lonely, person.=Background: Kestra was born with great psychic ability. It wasn't long before she used her powers for personal gain. She blackmailed teachers, stole spouses, and learned answers to questions before they were asked. When she reached her twenties, her psychic abilities proved too intense and she suffered a backlash. A psychic doctor helped her close parts of her mind, but Kestra decided she wanted more, a place away from people. She sells her ability to criminals in order to get the money to build her dream home.=Traits: (WC) Criminal, magical=393***=Jordana Callow=Interplanetary Customs Officer="Be advised that you are in violation of Code 12884-55-c, Loitering in a Public Venue. I'll have to cite you for that. Come with me."=Appearance: A young female customs officer in a crisply pressed uniform, Jordana most often wears a disapproving expression.=Roleplaying: Her love of authority makes her almost hostile. =Personality: She's a natural-born hall monitor, and tries to control every situation she's in.=Motivation: She is driven to enforce the letter and the spirit of the law, whichever is greater.=Background: Brought up in the sheltered environment of the planetary suburbs, Jordana prided herself on always doing the right thing, and had a long-standing fascination with space stations. A career in interplanetary customs was an obvious choice for her, and some family connections got her into the academy. She graduated near the top of her class, and has worked her way through a number of assignments, usually uncovering corruption and sloppy work by the agents. She's now in a supervisory position in a high-traffic space station, and does not cut anyone any slack. She's unpopular with everyone but the station commander, who doesn't like dealing with civilians and would rather they go elsewhere. She has a long memory, can recall faces almost perfectly, and can carry a grudge forever.=Traits: (KS) Aggressive, leader, police=394***=Thadd Brady=Galactic Superstar="What can I say? I'm the superstar of this team. You know, they say there's no ‘I' in team, but there is an ‘M' and an ‘E.'"=Appearance: He's a huge beast of a man, just under seven feet tall with rippling muscles under his jetball uniform. His gleaming jetball championship rings are tiny in comparison to his large hands. A diamond-studded pendant hanging from his chest reads "Thadd."=Roleplaying: Larger than life, Thadd crushes hands with his handshake and dislodges bones with backslaps of greeting. His face droops slightly to the side when he's in thought or trying to use complete sentences-which isn't often.=Personality: He's as dumb as a brick at times, and just as tough. He's built a reputation as the galaxy's best jetball player and has legions of fans as well as haters.=Motivation: Thadd's goal is simply to stay number one at all costs, even as his career winds down. He'll run over anyone who gets in his way.=Background: Thadd is used to getting his way, from becoming the number one pick in the draft to leading the Citadel Galaxy of the JFL to three championships. Ugly contract disputes, threats of demanding a trade, and general grandstanding on the field have turned Thadd into an infamous player but for the wrong reasons. He revels in the boos of the crowd and crushes his opponents-to the detriment of the team.=Traits: (DM) Aggressive, famous, primal=395***=Rodolf Korteweg=Conflicted Geneticist="We can make advances, great advances, in this field that will help all of mankind. But cloning of higher mammals? No. That is the Creator's work, and I will not be a part of it!"=Appearance: He wears a cross prominently as part of his attire, either as a lapel pin or a necklace. He favors dark clothes.=Roleplaying: He keeps a Bible displayed prominently on his office desk or on the podium when lecturing.=Personality: He views many of his peers as arrogant and unethical, and he is cold and unforgiving in meetings with them. Ordinarily, he is stern and gruff, though not mean.=Motivation: He works to stop scientists who engage in research that undermines the work of the Creator, especially efforts to clone higher mammals and humans.=Background: As a scientist, Rodolf always held his religious views close to his chest. Not until colleagues began to make what he thought were unwarranted attempts at cloning did he feel honor-bound to oppose them. He then became more forthcoming about his religious views, using his position and authority to sidetrack or delay such experiments, when possible. He has begun to attract like-minded scientists to his cause, but he has been faced by an equally visceral reaction from scientists who advocate advancement through cloning. His methods are growing more extreme, and it's only a matter of time until he turns to violence.=Traits: (TT) Religious, scientist=396***=Bianca Wyld ("Black Widow")=Psychic Assassin="I told him that I'd give him a night that he'd never forget. And he didn't. Well, at least for the few seconds he was still breathing, anyway."=Appearance: Black Widow is beautiful and sophisticated, sultry and sexy. She always wears fashionable clothes that accentuate her assets. She always seems to be exactly what her victim wants her to be.=Roleplaying: She always knows exactly what to say in order to convince her victim to take her somewhere private. She can drive a victim wild with a single look.=Personality: Beneath the sex, Black Widow is a cold, calculating assassin. She enjoys playing the game, so long as it ends with her victim's dying breaths. It's a huge turn-on for her to know that she is the final partner her victim will have.=Motivation: She kills for money, but she intensely enjoys her work.=Background: Black Widow, a.k.a. Bianca Wyld, enrolled in a psychic program when she was young. While she eventually washed out, Bianca discovered that she could read people's minds and emotions, but only enough to make herself pleasing to them. She became an assassin, modifying body parts to secrete potent poisons. She never appears as the same person twice and can change everything from skin color to accent, making her difficult to spot. She always poisons her victim during intimate encounters, when she can feel her victim's last moments.=Traits: (WC) Beautiful, charming, criminal, magical=397***=Chrysanthemum Solace=Beautiful Slaver="That frog translates seven languages and eats only compost-a bargain at 172."=Appearance: Chrysanthemum is perfectly toned; light muscle keeps her body taut. Her blond hair and coy smile have snared many a man. Her brown eyes glitter invitingly.=Roleplaying: She gets what she wants, but she'll smile first to see if she can get it from an adoring fan without paying a penny. She's willing to pay, of course, but the world is filled with dupes.=Personality: Ms. Solace is a passionate believer; she knows that only humans have souls. Profiting by the sale and servitude of aliens doesn't prick her conscience a bit.=Motivation: Chrysanthemum believes in the superiority of humans, but appreciates the reinforcement of her beliefs when aliens are debased. The profit and lifestyle-including the prick of danger-are part of the appeal.=Background: When she was a girl, the world indulged Chrysanthemum, praised her endless beauty, and suffered many a broken heart at her whimsy. Once, she actually fell in love. But it didn't last; her love grew to hate his subordinate role in the relationship. Crushed, Chrysanthemum turned to her priest for help. With his advice, she found confidence and a strong framework to guide her again. The lure of the shortcut was strong; she was entertained by criminals, drawn in by their wealth and direct adoration, and soon had a whole network of dangerous friends and suppliers.=Traits: (SM) Abhorrent, beautiful, criminal, merchant=398***=Estella Porphyria=Scheming Politician="Children, I have played this game since before your parents were born. You are so charming, like little heroes, but do not think that such as you can stand against progress."=Appearance: Like something out of an early 20th century painting, Estella is a grandmotherly woman who sets her knitting aside and stands up from her comfortable chair to greet people with a smile. =Roleplaying: Regardless of what she says or does, she is always polite and gracious.=Personality: She is arrogant, but hides it well. She is stubborn, but she will listen to others. She won't change her mind unless she learns of a new factor in her scheming. =Motivation: She wants her family's long-term plans for political domination to come to fruition.=Background: A testament to modern medicine, she looks like someone half her century-plus age. Behind her kind and gentle appearance lies a scheming mind and cold heart. The matron of her vast and powerful family, Estella pulls the strings that control entire economies and political systems, and is managing multiple decades-long projects in order to increase her family's vast power. Despite her appearance, she will aggressively protect her family and their goals. The "kindly grandmother" act is a front, an attempt to win the confidence of others. She will sit and talk for quite a while, and won't reveal her true nature until it is entirely too late. =Traits: (KS) Ancient, counselor, eccentric, political, power hungry=399***=Alex Stroyer=Compromised Cyborg Diplomat="I feel negotiations are going well. There is much the Etrani have to offer us."=Appearance: Tall and neat, well-groomed Alex Stroyer wears a blue, button-less military uniform with diplomat's epaulets on the shoulders. His piercing eyes betray just a hint of the nano-circuitry embedded throughout his nervous system.=Roleplaying: Alex Stroyer speaks in a calculated but charming way. He combines humanity and technology, giving him the ability to parse every word he speaks for maximum effect. He moves with a precision unavailable to unmodified humans.=Personality: Stroyer is friendly and willing to help. His calm and controlled nature is tuned to provide a soothing balm in tense situations.=Motivation: Alex's original mission was to act as a liaison to the Etrani, an alien race. Once they compromised his mechanical systems, he became a sleeper agent working to subvert and sabotage the planet to prepare for an invasion.=Background: Alex Stroyer wanted to be the best; that meant being grafted with nano-circuitry implants when he joined the diplomatic core. They granted him access to volumes of knowledge on the countries and races he negotiated with, and the ability to check every action before performing it. The circuitry also left him vulnerable to the Etrani's virus. Since the programming that prevents him from lying is supposedly undefeatable, none suspect him of being a double agent, or of committing the numerous sabotages that have occurred in the military bases he visits.=Traits: (JA) Academic, counselor, military, scholar=400***=Adonis Chandler=Anti-Establishment Terrorist="How much security can your system offer if I was able to get to you here, like this?"=Appearance: Adonis' honed, taught frame is a result of the intensive training that he puts himself through. A scar runs from his left temple all the way across his face and down his jaw, a souvenir of his time in a correctional facility.=Roleplaying: Adonis speaks slowly and has a mesmerizing quality to his voice. In his video propaganda, he rarely looks at the camera; his dispassionate face serves as a counterpoint to his violent crimes.=Personality: Adonis doesn't care about the lives he takes, only the message he spreads. He sees himself as a cruel angel, shearing the sheep so that they may know the cold and seek shelter.=Motivation: He seeks to awaken the people to the true nature of the corporation's control. He wants to shatter their illusion of security and gain his revenge.=Background: The cities are crowded and the people are sheep. Adonis was once like them, before he became an issue the corporation needed to deal with. Framed and sent to an off-world correctional facility, he was exposed to many harsh conditions and misfortunes before escaping back to his planet. He began a series of systematic terrorist attacks on key figures and institutions, attempting to awake the people from their stability and security.=Traits: (JA) Hideous, political, zealot=401***=Dr. Robert Casey=Oblivious Scientist="This power is not dangerous! It will be the saving of mankind!"=Appearance: Dr. Casey's gray hair is pulled back into a short ponytail, and his body is slightly hunched. His sharp face and wire glasses do not make him particularly attractive, but his warmth shows through his face.=Roleplaying: Dr. Casey does not see himself as evil, but his mind has slowly been corrupted by the latent energy in the alien ship he has been studying. He is friendly, but a piece of his mind secretly works against people who would take him from the craft.=Personality: His personality is slowly being split. One part of him is the friendly researcher; the other is the jealous guardian of the alien power. His friendly side has no idea what his hidden side does.=Motivation: He seeks to study the vessel, though his hidden side is being manipulated to revive it.=Background: Dr. Casey has made great progress studying an alien craft, even reviving its unique and unfathomable power source. Unbeknownst to him, the power source is a complex, sentient damage repair system. It has reached out and corrupted his mind, prompting him to provide the organic pieces it needs for self-repair. First Dr. Casey's hidden side murdered homeless people for the device, but now it requires heartier specimens. His natural defense mechanisms have turned against him, and he blots out any memory of his atrocities.=Traits: (JA) Academic, focal, power hungry, scholar=402***=Raymond Hunter=Brainwashed Celebrity="Down with the Man! Only dead fish go with the stream!"=Appearance: Raymond is slender, with a golden-brown tan. He's spectacularly dressed in an expensive yet casual style. Dark designer shades hide his exhausted, bloodshot eyes.=Roleplaying: Though his passion to overthrow the establishment is seemingly boundless, Raymond lacks the ability to debate any of the related facts or issues coherently. Instead, he parrots slogans and protest chants.=Personality: Weak-minded and easily swayed, Raymond has been forcibly brainwashed by a combination of exhaustion and a high-tech gadget, leaving him tired and easily confused.=Motivation: Raymond is fully devoted to the cause of bringing down the established power structure to bring about an anarchist state.=Background: A radical anarchist cell kidnapped Raymond, a well-known celebrity, and brainwashed him. The cell's mind control device ensures that Raymond performs as their front man to help them gather public support and resources. The brainwashing process weakened Raymond's already less-than-bright mind, making him prone to follow orders from almost anyone. The anarchists assigned to Raymond a cadre of handlers who run interference and keep Raymond as focused as possible on the task at hand.=Traits: (MN) Beautiful, charming, entertainment, famous, humorous, political, wealthy, zealot=403***=Reverend Johnny Skywalker=Self-Centered Preacher="Man has always carried the Way within him. Look inside yourself, and see the face of divinity, as I do."=Appearance: A fit young man, Johnny wears an archaic black shirt with a white collar, and gestures energetically at the sky when he preaches.=Roleplaying: He's friendly, but very condescending. He talks mostly about himself, and peppers his language with references to the Way.=Personality: He's narcissistic, and justifies his desires with his religion. =Motivation: On the surface, he is dedicated to leading others; deep down, he does what he wants. =Background: A natural-born wanderer, Johnny looked to many religions before settling on an obscure cult called the Way of Life. The Book of the Way is exceedingly vague, using cryptic references and obscure imagery that can be interpreted in many ways. Johnny subconsciously interprets the Way as being identical to his own desires, and uses the Book to justify them and to manipulate his followers into doing what he wants. He isn't corrupt in the sense that he steals money, but he might imply that something bad should happen to those who doubt him, or that a prostitute give to the Way in the only manner she knows. Accused of impropriety, he'll retreat behind quotes from the Book, such as, "The shallow will question the deep, but know nothing of the currents therein." His energy has built him quite a following.=Traits: (KS) Eccentric, leader, power hungry, religious=404***=Prince Lucius Rhordan=Erratic Playboy="Ahh...I thought this race to the outer moon was going to be more exciting. This bores me. Open fire on the other ship, and set a course for home."=Appearance: Lucius is short, with a largish nose and a poor complexion. His curly brown hair is tied into a ponytail. He carries a cane made of a very expensive metal.=Roleplaying: Lucius' moods are unpredictable; he can be friendly one moment and vitriolic the next. He prefers to lounge rather than stand or sit. He waves his cane around as if drawing the words he is speaking.=Personality: He is erratic in mood and thought; a good idea one moment can be tossed aside the next. Lucius is also a dilettante with no capacity to invest effort into anything. Coupled with his erratic moods, he is destructive when something loses his interest. =Motivation: He pursues anything that catches his eye, until he finds something more interesting. His only motivation is entertainment.=Background: Lucius is a prince of a rich solar system. He grew up spoiled, with no responsibilities. He's a playboy who travels around with a platoon of guards on his heavily armed ship and gets into trouble. The people of his system know him for his erratic and violent behavior. Because of his reputation, Lucius makes friends with travelers, letting himself get caught up in their schemes until he gets bored and turns on them just to see what happens.=Traits: (PV) Dilettante, notorious, royalty, wealthy=405***=Titania Drusis=Feral Wanderer="Back! Down! Graaarr."=Appearance: Lean and feral, the dark ritual scars covering most of Titania's body draw eyes. Her dark hair is tangled, her clothing is torn, and she's covered in scrapes and bruises.=Roleplaying: Titania is brusque; two words are a sufficient answer for anything. Her eyes constantly dart about, and she moves like a wild animal, tensing and sliding, never casually walking.=Personality: She is illiterate and savage, living in an incomprehensible world.=Motivation: Trying to survive, Titania lives in the now. Little remains of her old life; in sleep she sometimes dreams of her past, but only fleeting visions carry into the morning.=Background: Titania grew up a member of the underclass, one of the invisible workers, until she crossed paths with a slumming lowlife. She became his project; imprisoned, memory wiped, and turned feral. She learned well and escaped through the ducts and pipes he never noticed. Unable to work, she kills to survive. The scars are self-inflicted, corresponding to hazy visions from dreams.=Traits: (SM) Artist, impoverished, primal, stealthy=406***=Vice President Tovrin Cable=Incompetent Executive="Of course I've requisitioned the proper supplies for…oh, well, I'll get to it! Now get out!"=Appearance: Tovrin wears crisp business suits and has his hair styled daily. He's always sweating and changes his shirt at least three times a day. He's constantly checking his data-pad and rarely looks up.=Roleplaying: He is calm and stable as long as his decisions aren't questioned. When this happens Tovrin quickly becomes agitated and blurts out justifications, growing less coherent as he continues.=Personality: He knows that he's out of his element but doesn't want to admit it. He blames others for his failures and constantly reassures his cousin that everything is under control.=Motivation: Tovrin simply wants to keep his position.=Background: Rimworld Corporation CEO Janis Field placed Tovrin, her cousin, in charge of the gas refineries of the Donar sector. Tovrin had a degree but had never amounted to anything; Janis sent him to Donar because it seemed an easy task. Unfortunately, a gas shortage led the company to demand more gas. Tovrin's ineffective leadership meant that he was leaning on the refiners while depriving them of needed equipment. Tovrin eagerly sends in security to stifle any protestors. Tovrin has also made a deal with gas pirates; he shares the rival ships' course information with the pirates in order to keep his refinery intact. The pirates have turned the tables and blackmailed Tovrin into providing cover for other illegal activities.=Traits: (WC) Aggressive, business, white collar=407***=Lo Valain=Charismatic Priestess="Have you ever considered your cosmic destiny? Come, let me show you something that will change your life."=Appearance: Tall and curvaceous, Lo has flowing black hair that hangs to her ankles, heavy-lidded eyes, and a vampire's smile. She dresses like a Greek goddess.=Roleplaying: Lo is gracious and welcoming to all, and makes physical contact with everyone she speaks to.=Personality: Sensuous in a sinister, magnetic way, Lo knows the effect she has on others; it's just another tool in her arsenal. She excels at winning people to her perspective and commands unwavering loyalty from her followers.=Motivation: She won't admit it, but what Lo really likes is power. She truly believes the Church's founding idea, but as it may not be achieved in her lifetime, her focus is on acquiring followers.=Background: Lo is the founder and High Priestess of the Church of Nova, a cult dedicated to the belief that cosmic unity can only be achieved by dying in a supernova. Since space is big and supernovae are rare, the Church's faithful comb the galaxy in a ragtag fleet, recruiting new members along the way. As a villain, Lo shines when a star that's about to go nova enters the picture. She'll accelerate the process with specially prepared missiles, and ultimately will wipe out thousands of innocent, brainwashed people if the PCs don't stop her.=Traits: (MR) Focal, leader, occult, power hungry, religious, zealot=408***=Thalen Grood=Advocacy Opportunist="We must act for our planet! If we don't, we will burn in the fires of global warming!"=Appearance: His long hair and beard are graying and well groomed. He usually wears a T-shirt (of his design) emblazoned with a slogan consistent with a "green" cause.=Roleplaying: When in a confrontation, he takes a wide stance and places hands on his hips in defiance.=Personality: He's opinionated, though his activism does not define his personality as much as the motivation behind it. He's good at riling up a crowd.=Motivation: He's looking to cash in on the green movement, using "consumer activism" tactics to drum up interest in all his merchandise.=Background: He took a few courses in science from his local community college, and then started a T-shirt business. During the "Save the Whales" craze, he noticed T-shirts branded to a cause sold well. He latched onto global warming slogans as a way to sell more shirts. He began hawking them at global warming rallies, got caught up in the frenzy, and soon found himself pegged as a leader. Now as a spokesman for the cause, he confronts global warming naysayers, assails them with accusations and talking points, never passing on the opportunity for a fierce, hot-tempered debate. His business has expanded into other merchandise and fund-raising. He drives hybrids to rallies, keeping his gas guzzler in the garage. Many within the movement know he is a fraud.=Traits: (TT) Business, leader, notorious=409***=Sierra Leonard=Devious Actor="If you haven't lived it, how will the audience experience it?"=Appearance: Sierra has boyish good looks, tousled brown hair, green eyes, and a broad smile.=Roleplaying: He punches up the emotion, uses loaded language, and liberally quotes whatever he wants. He nods and smiles constantly, even when he's lost.=Personality: He's willing to work hard and steadily on any role or problem. He's in high demand, as people know about his extensive research-he's pre-sold them on the idea that his characters are more realistic.=Motivation: Sierra wants to be the best actor, and he believes that living a role-method acting-is the only way to be properly convincing.=Background: He's an acting savant, completely dedicated to his craft. He has been since his first roles at a young age. The line between research and law breaking has taken a beating recently, as his next role is a legendary con-man. He's living the life-updated for modern times, catching several prominent people off guard. His crime spree might end in a few weeks, or this might be the character that puts him over the edge, embracing a life without limits.=Traits: (SM) Artist, entertainment, notorious=410***=Felicity Mann=Ogre-Like Mastermind="Go way. The boss ain't signin' no autographs today."=Appearance: Felicity is a giant of a woman. Her arms hang unevenly from her sharply square frame, and her mouth is a disturbing slash in her face.=Roleplaying: Communicating mostly with grunts and broken language, Felicity has no concept of personal space and stands far too close to others when she speaks with them. Her jaw hangs slightly agape and her single eyebrow and incessant mouth-breathing do little to improve others' estimation of her intelligence.=Personality: Devious and manipulative, Felicity is actually far more intelligent than most people, a fact she conceals to make both her official job and her master schemes easier.=Motivation: Felicity aims to become the puppet master behind numerous political powers by utilizing her gift for psychic enslavement.=Background: The team of scientists behind the genetically enhanced super-soldier product were sure they had failed. They told themselves Felicity was a disappointment. They were wrong. Endowed with a frightening array of formidable psychic powers, Felicity used her talent for mental manipulation to prevent detection of her abilities and to negotiate freedom. Gaining a position as a bodyguard for the rich and influential with her powers, she turns those under her protection into mindless puppets.=Traits: (MN) Aggressive, charming, focal, genius, hideous, humorous, magical, power hungry, warrior=411***=The Grim Reaper=Insane Assassin="Anyone can kill somebody. It takes an artist to do it artfully."=Appearance: The Reaper is a short, bald man who wears a thin visor and a utility jumpsuit that contains many pockets and devices. He has a penchant for Deltan cigars.=Roleplaying: He takes joy in his art and always gives cryptic information. He doesn't run if spotted, secure in the fact that he can't be connected with his assassinations anyway. =Personality: The Reaper may be insane. He certainly takes pleasure in his "colorful" assassinations and seems to live for no other purpose. He's a tortured artist that no one understands.=Motivation: He kills for his art. Getting paid for it is a bonus.=Background: The Grim Reaper is mysterious. He claims that his real name is Gil Raines, but he has several aliases. He has the money and expertise to invent elaborate and darkly humorous ways to kill people. He never assassinates anyone the same way twice and each death is more elaborate than the last. The Reaper's knowledge of technology enables him to bypass security and create death traps using the victim's surroundings (such as opening an airlock or dropping a security door). As an artist, the Grim Reaper enjoys watching the kill personally. As a wealthy man, he has an army of lawyers and government officials in his pocket to dissuade investigators.=Traits: (WC) Artist, criminal, eccentric, genius, mysterious=412***=Sicamet Winter=Stowaway Assassin="I demand payment up front because once the job is underway, you'll never see me again."=Appearance: For assassinations, Sicamet wears a low-profile spacesuit that can provide a few hours of full life support, and carries a wide range of tools. He rarely has less than 12 weapons about his person. He's small, slight, and good at fitting into tight spaces.=Roleplaying: Methodical and unassuming, Sicamet fades into the background easily. Even in a conversation, he's a small and unobtrusive presence.=Personality: His method requires a specialized skill set, and he's proud to be the only assassin of his kind. He's meticulous, well-prepared, and regards each assassination as a fascinating set of obstacles to be overcome. He takes no pleasure in the killing, it just happens to be what he excels at.=Motivation: Sicamet lives for the thrill of the hunt, and the knife edge upon which every assassination balances: once he leaves his hiding place, can he quietly murder everyone aboard before they detect and overwhelm him?=Background: Sicamet is an assassin for hire with an unusual approach: He stows away aboard a target's ship, waits until it's underway, kills everyone aboard, and steals the ship. Numerous "accidents" and instances where a ship has simply vanished with all hands could be traced back to him, though as yet none of his assassinations have been identified as such. One on one, he's easily outclassed-but when playing his own game, he's a deadly foe.=Traits: (MR) Criminal, notorious, stealthy, warrior=413***=Officer Teresa Jackhill=Arrogant Cop="Oh, no. You didn't just talk back to me. Step out of the vehicle. NOW."=Appearance: Her officer's uniform is impeccably clean and pressed, her badge polished. Removing her helmet and pilot's glasses reveals her dark skin, deep eyes, and braided cornrows. At her side is her officer's sidearm.=Roleplaying: Teresa talks in a no-nonsense manner, driving to the heart of the discussion. She'll make accusations to cause suspects to fluster and will nit-pick the smallest parts of a person's story for errors. She always pissed off about something. She takes furious notes on her vidpad to document her findings. When she turns it off, things are about to get ugly.=Personality: She's dark and mean-spirited, seeing everyone as a suspect or guilty of breaking the law in some way. She works within the confines of the law until it gets in the way. In the long run she has absolute faith in the system and even more faith in her ability to adjudicate it.=Motivation: She will uphold the law and hold others accountable for their actions. Without the law-and those who enforce it-chaos would rule supreme. Sometimes she has to take the law into her own hands.=Background: Teresa lacked boundaries in her upbringing and had the occasional infraction in her time before joining the force. Now hardened by discipline, she sees the populace that she's sworn to protect as the cesspool that it is.=Traits: (DM) Pilot, police, zealot=414***=Danielle Graph=Erratic Mastermind="Think of this as a tax-one to make up for the misplaced spending of feckless politicians."=Appearance: Danielle has green eyes, stands 5'10", and is a curvaceous beauty-lush in every way. Scars from an explosion mar her face and arms, but she is excellent with foundation and concealer.=Roleplaying: Superficially warm, Danielle complements people to draw them out. When the pain rises, she becomes short and sharp, often unconsciously hissing through her teeth.=Personality: Danielle is resentful-she was injured fighting for the empire and suffers chronic pain.=Motivation: She wants money enough to pay for painkillers; unfortunately, she needs more and more for true relief. Danielle is reluctant to harm people, but she is quite happy to bilk the empire's agents and wealthy business people.=Background: She served the empire with distinction for years, accruing battle honors and swiftly rising through the ranks. She wasn't ready for the responsibilities of command, however, and constantly felt like an actor. She learned how to rely on a staff, how to develop their skills, and how to ensure that they never betrayed her or spoke too loudly about their own contributions. An ion explosion scarred her and the injury left her addicted to pain medicines. They unbalance her, and are illegal for her now that she is medically recovered. She has assembled and nurtured a team to pay for her expensive habit.=Traits: (SM) Criminal, leader, military, warrior=415***=Tobur Vigo=Cybernetically Enhanced Toady="I have a mind of my own…I just like his style, that's all."=Appearance: Tobur is pure muscle with multiple obvious enhancements. He wears his hair in a green flat-top buzz cut and is always carrying weapons. He has multiple tattoos up and down his arms from his stints in the space marines.=Roleplaying: He does his best to emulate his current employer when speaking. As he doesn't understand many concepts outside of war the results can be unintentionally hilarious. =Personality: Tobur is a soldier, not a leader. He does as he's ordered and has a tactical mind, but for social situations he adopts his current employer's style.=Motivation: He is a mercenary, motivated by money and whoever impresses him at the moment.=Background: Tobur has always been a follower. His father was a colonial governor, and Tobur would emulate the style and manner of visitors to the colony. While his parents found this creative, it turned out that Tobur couldn't be creative on his own. He was dismissed from the Academy when it was discovered that he'd plagiarized his papers. The only thing Tobur showed an affinity for was fighting. After he was mustered out Tobur went to work for various criminals. While an effective henchmen Tobur's emulation of his bosses often led to his dismissal. Fortunately, there's always more work.=Traits: (WC) Eccentric, military, warrior=416***=Eddie Edge, "Evildoer Extraordinaire"=Outlandish Criminal="Are you having as great a time losing as I am winning?"=Appearance: Eddie cuts a dashing figure in his flight suit, retro helmet, goggles, and experimental jetpack. He is accompanied everywhere by his trusty terrier sidekick, Ernest.=Roleplaying: With a devil-may-care attitude, Eddie constantly cracks jokes, taunts those trying to stop him, and performs crazy stunts. The only thing he actually takes seriously is Ernest.=Personality: Life is a game to Eddie. He enjoys the thrill of committing big crimes, and he is rich enough that he doesn't need to be concerned with the consequences of an arrest.=Motivation: Eddie likes to have fun pulling big, impressive heists. The bigger, the better.=Background: At one time a wealthy inventor, Eddie's repeated exposure to radiation and numerous chemical agents drove him slightly mad. Hungry for new thrills, he tried all manner of distractions before he discovered the excitement of large-scale crime as an art form and invented his new persona. With his array of gadgets, his near endless wealth, and his unstable mind, he's a difficult foe to predict or stop. Eddie generally attempts impossible crimes, like stealing national monuments or sneaking into a maximum-security vault and stamping his face on every piece of currency inside. He doesn't particularly care about being successful, just about having fun in the effort.=Traits: (MN) Criminal, eccentric, genius, humorous, notorious, pilot, scientist, wealthy=417***=Eveline Nal=Time-Traveling Thief="There it is, the Syrak Crystal Crown, right on time. Too bad that will be the last time you see it."=Appearance: Eveline is dark-skinned woman of average height. Her black hair is cut short, revealing a large forehead and large green eyes.=Roleplaying: She is very careful in her movements, and never acts first, instead waiting for everyone else to move. She's elusive about her background.=Personality: Eveline is careful and single-minded. She plans everything and sticks to the plan. When events deviate from her plan, she grows increasingly uncomfortable.=Motivation: She's a thief who enjoys stealing as much as she enjoys the money she gets from her heists.=Background: Eveline is from the far future, where she has acquired an illegal time travel device. She uses the device to travel into to the past and steal artifacts, which she then sells in her time. Because of the dangers of time travel, she is extremely careful in planning her capers in order to avoid the "butterfly effect" in her own time. She has made eight trips into the past, and seven were without incident. On the eighth trip, she was attacked by a guard who missed her and killed a bystander. The end result in her time was the total destruction of that planet though civil war. She is very scared to make a ninth trip, but her money is running out.=Traits: (PV) Criminal, focal, mysterious, stealthy