Because Destiny Says So::Characters want to fulfill a prophecy.
Because You Were Nice to Me::One character is loyal to another due to a single kind act.
Career-Building Blunder::When an early mistake provides a character's motivation.
Chronic Hero Syndrome::Character is compelled to help everyone, all the time.
Community-Threatening Construction::When a planned construction site motivates residents to defend their home, which is subject for demolition.
Concepts Are Cheap::Characters have vague one word motivations that could really mean anything.
Darwinist Desire::A character wants to reproduce with the fittest mate possible.
Debt Detester::Character repays debts as soon as possible so as to not owe others.
Declaration of Protection::A person has their entire motivation built around protecting a vulnerable person (usually a girl).
Desperately Looking for a Purpose in Life::A character on a journey to find a meaningful place in the world.
Despotism Justifies the Means::Bad guys who want only power and will do anything to achieve it.
Dismotivation::Characters try hard to achieve nothing.
Driven by Envy::A character wants something someone else has, and resents them for it.
Dystopia Justifies the Means::Bad guys whose goal is to create a nightmarish Crapsack World.
Embodiment of Virtue::A character is driven by the desire to achieve perfection in a certain moral virtue.
Enemies Equals Greatness::Opposition or mistreatment from others is what gets a character highly motivated to do great things.
Everyone's Baby Sister::Threats on a character that everyone cares about gets characters to act against the threat.
Failure Knight::A character failed to protect someone once, and is determined not to fail again.
Family Honor::A character wants to live up to their family name, and bring credit to their family.
Fighting for a Homeland
Food as Bribe::Some people will do anything for food.
For Great Justice::Good guys fight so that Justice Will Prevail.
For Happiness::A character wants to spread joy and cheer.
For Science!::A character wants to make scientific discoveries, even if they have no real practical purposes.
For the Evulz::Bad guys do evil because they love evil.
For the Funnyz::A character makes a joke, usually against their own self-interest, because they love jokes.
The Four Loves::A character searches for love, in any form.
Freudian Excuse::Something in a villain's past causes them to act the way they do, for example parental abuse.
Freudian Excuse is No Excuse::Terrible childhood or not, it still doesn't justify their crimes.
Glory Seeker::A character wants other people to consider him/her to be a badass.
Glory Hound::The more villainous counterpart, a character who wants to be remembered and will commit atrocities in order to achieve that.
Goal in Life::A character's main motivation through life.
Gotta Catch Them All::A character wants to pursue a collection.
Healthcare Motivation::A character desperately needs money to pay for medical treatment.
Hidden Agenda Villain::They have a motive, but we're not sure what it is.
Home Sweet Home::A character is just trying to settle things so they can stay home.
Honor Before Reason::A character only wants to do the right thing above all else.
Humble Goal::A character wants to do or have something that happens to be simple.
I Just Want to Be Badass::A character wants to be strong.
I Just Want to Be Beautiful::A character wants to remain or become beautiful.
I Just Want to Be Free::A character wants freedom from some sort of bondage.
I Just Want to Be Normal::A character living an abnormal life wants to live a life without excitement.
I Just Want to Be Special::A character living a mundane life wants to be more exciting.
I Just Want to Be You::A character wants to be literally the person they envy.
I Just Want to Have Friends::A character or a person who wants friends.
I Owe You My Life::A character feels indebted to someone who saved their life.
I Want My Beloved to Be Happy::A character wants the person they love to be happy, even at the risk of their own happiness.
"I Want" Song::Exposition of a character's motivation in the form of a song at the beginning of the story.
I Want to Be a Real Man::A character wants to be masculine or prove his masculinity.
I Will Find You::A character wants to find a lost or kidnapped loved one, whatever the cost.
In Harm's Way::Characters want excitement and danger in their lives.
Inspirational Insult
It Amused Me::A character who acts purely for their own entertainment.
It Is Beyond Saving::A character or group of characters wants a society destroyed and/or abandoned under the impression that it is beyond saving.
It's Personal::A character does something for a personal reason.
Loves Only Gold::A character is obsessed with a particular form of wealth and will do anything to obtain it.
MacGuffin::It doesn't matter what it does, but all the characters want it.
Mission Creep::The mission you signed up for, you are going to have to do a lot of grinding, sidetracking, and unrelated tasks to achieve it, risking compromise and failure.
Moral Pragmatist::You can turn a villain into a hero, if you can convince them that their methods hurt their motivation.
Motivated By Fear::Fear is a powerful motivator.
Motivation on a Stick
Motivational Kiss::A character (usually male) becomes more confident and self-determined after recieving a kiss from a Love Interest.
Motivational Lie::A character is motivated into doing something they were initially reluctant to do after being lied to about it.
Motive Decay::A character has a great motivation, but forgets it eventually.
The Dark Side Will Make You Forget::A character who uses evil means to accomplish a good goal loses sight of the goal over time.
Never Be Hurt Again::A character seeks to ensure that no one will ever hurt or take advantage of them again, usually by becoming a badass.
New Year's Resolution::A character tries to use the promise of a New Year to create motivation.
Not in This for Your Revolution::A character is involved in an admirable pursuit for un-heroic reasons. Not necessarily evil, just not heroic.
Only in It for the Money::A Sub-Trope of the above, in which the un-heroic motivation is specifically wealth.
Pinocchio Syndrome::A character wants to be human, or to regain their humanity.
The Power of Apathy::The character's lack of motivation saves the day.
The Power of Friendship::A character is motivated by his friends.
The Power of Hate::A character desires what's worst for others.
The Power of Love::A character desires good.
Pursue the Dream Job::A character desires a specific job and follows his heart.
Rage Against the Heavens::A character wants the gods to pay for what they've done.
Revenge::A character wants another character to pay for what he's done.
Restart the World::A character wants to destroy the world and start over.
Rich Boredom::A character wants to need to do something.
Samaritan Syndrome::A character feels guilt over the people they could save, but don't.
Screw Destiny::Characters want to go against a prophecy and prove it wrong.
Seeks Another's Resurrection::One character seeks to resurrect another character who has died.
Seven Deadly Sins
Greed::Characters just want more.
Lust::Characters just want sex.
Envy::Characters want what other people have.
Pride::Characters value themselves and want to feel as if they're worth something.
Sloth::Characters just want to do nothing.
Wrath::Characters just want you to suffer.
Gluttony::Characters just want to consume.
Survivor Guilt::A character doesn't want anyone else to die in their stead.
There's No Place Like Home::A character wants to go home again.
To Create a Playground for Evil::A character wants to make the world a more evil place.
They Called Me Mad!::A character is motivated by the mockery he's received in the past.
Tragic Dream::The character is motivated by the desire for something they can never have.
Trapped in Villainy::A villain only performs villainous acts because, if they dont, they'll die.
Thrill Seeker::A character is motivated by his search for excitement.
Undying Loyalty ::A character is motivated by desire to help someone or something they care about.
Utopia Justifies the Means::Characters, usually bad guys, who wish to create a better world but will go to extreme lengths to achieve it.
"Well Done, Son!" Guy/"Well Done, Dad!" Guy::A character wants someone to acknowledge them.
Well-Intentioned Extremist::A character has noble goals, but goes about achieving them ruthlessly.
Not-So-Well-Intentioned Extremist::Their goals (or what they tell themselves and others about the goals) sound high-minded, but the actual motive isn't very noble at all.
Working for a Body Upgrade::Characters want their boss to repair or improve their physique/looks/abilities.