Fog:Whether in the form of a low-lying cloud or a mist rising from the ground, fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance).
Hail:The sound of falling hail imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks. Sometimes hail can become large enough to deal 1 point of lethal damage (per storm) to anything in the open.  A day of hail leaves 1d6 inches of loose ice on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a hail-covered square.
Heavy Snow:Heavy snow reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. All sight, including darkvision, is obscured beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance). It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Heavy snow has a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.  A day of heavy snowfall leaves 1d4 feet of snow on the ground. It costs 4 squares of movement to enter a square covered with heavy snow. Heavy snow accompanied by strong or severe winds may result in snowdrifts 1d4 x 5 feet deep, especially in and around objects big enough to deflect the wind -- a cabin or a large tent, for instance.
Rain:Rain reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Rain automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.
Sleet:Essentially frozen rain, sleet reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Sleet automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 75% chance to extinguish these lights.  A day of sleet leaves 1d6 inches of loose ice on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a sleet-covered square.
Snow:Snow reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  A day of snowfall leaves 1d6 inches of snow on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a snow-covered square.
Cold:An unprotected character in cold weather (below 40&deg;F) must make a Fortitude save each hour (DC 15, + 1 per previous check) or take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage.  A character who has the Survival skill may receive a bonus on her saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well.  A character who takes any nonlethal damage from cold or exposure is beset by frostbite or hypothermia (treat her as fatigued). These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal damage she took from the cold and exposure.  Nonlethal damage from cold or exposure cannot be recovered until the character gets out of the cold and warms up again. Once a character is rendered unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the cold and exposure begins to deal lethal damage at the same rate.
Extreme Cold:Extreme cold (below -20&deg;F) deals 1d6 points of lethal damage per minute (no save). In addition, a character must make a Fortitude save (DC 15, +1 per previous check) or take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage. Those wearing metal armor or coming into contact with very cold metal are affected as if by a <i>chill metal</i> spell.  A character who has the Survival skill may receive a bonus on her saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well. Characters wearing winter clothing only need check once per hour for cold and exposure damage.  A character who takes any nonlethal damage from cold or exposure is beset by frostbite or hypothermia (treat her as fatigued). These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal damage she took from the cold and exposure.  Nonlethal damage from cold or exposure cannot be recovered until the character gets out of the cold and warms up again. Once a character is rendered unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the cold and exposure begins to deal lethal damage at the same rate.
Extreme Heat:Extreme heat (air temperature over 140&deg;F, fire, boiling water, lava) deals lethal damage. Breathing air in these temperatures deals 1d6 points of damage per minute (no save). In addition, a character must make a Fortitude save every 5 minutes (DC 15, + 1 per previous check) or take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage. In addition, those wearing metal armor or coming into contact with very hot metal are affected as if by a <i>heat metal</i> spell.  Characters wearing heavy clothing or armor of any sort take a -4 penalty on their saves. A character with the Survival skill may receive a bonus on her saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well.  A character who takes any nonlethal damage from heat exposure now suffers from heatstroke and is fatigued. These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal damage she took from the heat.  Nonlethal damage from heat exposure cannot be recovered until the character gets cooled off (reaches shade, survives until nightfall, gets doused in water, is targeted by <i>endure elements</i>, and so forth). Once rendered unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the character begins to take lethal damage at the same rate.
Severe Cold:In conditions of severe cold or exposure (below 0&deg;F), an unprotected character must make a Fortitude save once every 10 minutes (DC 15, +1 per previous check), taking 1d6 points of nonlethal damage on each failed save.  A character who has the Survival skill may receive a bonus on her saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well. Characters wearing winter clothing only need check once per hour for cold and exposure damage.  A character who takes any nonlethal damage from cold or exposure is beset by frostbite or hypothermia (treat her as fatigued). These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal damage she took from the cold and exposure.  Nonlethal damage from cold or exposure cannot be recovered until the character gets out of the cold and warms up again. Once a character is rendered unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the cold and exposure begins to deal lethal damage at the same rate.
Severe Heat:In severe heat (above 110&deg;F), a character must make a Fortitude save once every 10 minutes (DC 15, + 1 for each previous check) or take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage.  Characters wearing heavy clothing or armor of any sort take a -4 penalty on their saves. A character with the Survival skill may receive a bonus on her saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well.  A character who takes any nonlethal damage from heat exposure now suffers from heatstroke and is fatigued. These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal damage she took from the heat.  Nonlethal damage from heat exposure cannot be recovered until the character gets cooled off (reaches shade, survives until nightfall, gets doused in water, is targeted by <i>endure elements</i>, and so forth). Once rendered unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the character begins to take lethal damage at the same rate.
Very Hot:A character in very hot conditions (above 90&deg;F) must make a Fortitude saving throw each hour (DC 15, + 1 for each previous check) or take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage.  Characters wearing heavy clothing or armor of any sort take a -4 penalty on their saves. A character with the Survival skill may receive a bonus on her saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well.  A character who takes any nonlethal damage from heat exposure now suffers from heatstroke and is fatigued. These penalties end when the character recovers the nonlethal damage she took from the heat.  Nonlethal damage from heat exposure cannot be recovered until the character gets cooled off (reaches shade, survives until nightfall, gets doused in water, is targeted by <i>endure elements</i>, and so forth). Once rendered unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal damage, the character begins to take lethal damage at the same rate.
Hurricane:Listen checks are impossible, as all that characters can hear is the roaring of the wind. Ranged weapon attacks are impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -8 penalty on attack rolls.  All flames are automatically extinguished.  Hurricane-force winds often fell trees. Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Fort save or be blown away (Medium or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Large; prone), or checked (Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Large or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Huge), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Gargantuan).
Light Wind:A gentle breeze, having little or no game effect.
Moderate Wind:A steady wind with a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.
Severe Wind:Winds of this magnitude impose a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks. Severe wind automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save or be blown away (Tiny or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Small; prone), or checked (Medium; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Small or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Medium), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Large).
Strong Wind:Strong gusts of wind that impose a -2 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks. Such gusts automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.  Tiny or smaller land-bound creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Fort save every round or be knocked prone. Small or smaller airborne creatures are instead blown back 1d6 x 10 feet.
Tornado (CR 10):While a tornado's rotational speed can be as great as 300 mph, the funnel itself moves forward at an average of 30 mph (roughly 250 feet per round).  Listen checks are impossible, as all that characters can hear is the roaring of the wind. Ranged weapon attacks are impossible, even those using siege weapons.  All flames are automatically extinguished.  A tornado uproots trees, destroys buildings, and causes other similar forms of major destruction. Creatures must succeed on a DC 30 Fort save or be sucked toward the tornado (Large or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Huge; prone), or checked (Gargantuan or Colossal; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead sucked 2d6 x 10 feet toward the tornado and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Huge or smaller creatures), sucked 1d6 x 10 feet (Gargantuan), or sucked 1d6 x 5 feet (Colossal).  Those who come in contact with the actual funnel cloud are picked up and whirled around for 1d10 rounds, taking 6d6 points of damage per round, before being violently expelled (falling damage may apply).
Windstorm:Powerful enough to bring down branches if not whole trees, windstorms impose a -8 penalty on Listen checks due to the howling of the wind. Ranged weapon attacks are impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Windstorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They have a 75% chance to extinguish protected flames, such as those of lanterns.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).
Blizzard:The combination of high winds, heavy snow (typically 1d3 feet), and bitter cold make blizzards deadly for all who are unprepared for them.  Blizzards reduce visibility to zero, making Spot, Search, and Listen checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible. All sight, including darkvision, is obscured beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance).  Blizzards automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They have a 75% chance to extinguish protected flames, such as those of lanterns.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).  In addition, blizzards leave 1d3 feet of heavy snow on the ground afterward. It costs 4 squares of movement to enter a square covered with heavy snow. A blizzard may result in snowdrifts 1d4 x 5 feet deep, especially in and around objects big enough to deflect the wind -- a cabin or a large tent, for instance.
Duststorm:These desert storms blow fine grains of sand. The combined effects of dust and wind reduce visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Duststorms make ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Duststorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They cause protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and have a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save or be blown away (Tiny or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Small; prone), or checked (Medium; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Small or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Medium), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Large).  Duststorms leave behind a deposit of 1d6 inches of sand.
Greater Duststorm:Greater duststorms drive fine grains of sand in windstorm-force winds. The combined effects of dust and wind reduce visibility to zero, making Spot, Search, and Listen checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible.  Greater duststorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They have a 75% chance to extinguish protected flames, such as those of lanterns.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).  In addition, greater duststorms deal 1d3 points of nonlethal damage each round to anyone caught out in the open without shelter and also pose a choking hazard. A character with a scarf or similar protection across her mouth and nose does not begin to choke until after a number of rounds equal to 10 x her Constitution score.  Greater duststorms leave 2d3-1 feet of fine sand in their wake.
Hurricane:The combined effects of torrential precipitation and high wind reduce visibility to zero, making Spot, Search, and Listen checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible.  All flames are automatically extinguished.  Hurricane-force winds often fell trees. Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Fort save or be blown away (Medium or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Large; prone), or checked (Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Large or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Huge), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Gargantuan).  In addition, hurricanes are accompanied by floods. Most adventuring activity is impossible under such conditions.
Severe Thunderstorm:The combined effects of torrential precipitation and high wind reduce visibility to zero, making Spot, Search, and Listen checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible.  Unprotected flames are automatically extinguished, and protected flames have a 75% chance of being doused.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).  In addition, thunderstorms are accompanied by lightning that can pose a hazard to characters without proper shelter (especially those in metal armor). As a rule of thumb, assume one bolt per minute for a 1 hour period at the center of the storm. Each bolt causes electricity damage equal to 1d10 eight-sided dice.
Snowstorm:The combined effects of precipitation and wind reduce visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Snowstorms make ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Snowstorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They cause protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and have a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save or be blown away (Tiny or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Small; prone), or checked (Medium; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Small or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Medium), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Large).  In addition, snowstorms leave 1d6 inches of snow on the ground afterward. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a snow-covered square.
Thunderstorm:The combined effects of precipitation and wind reduce visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Thunderstorms make ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Thunderstorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They cause protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and have a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save or be blown away (Tiny or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Small; prone), or checked (Medium; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Small or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Medium), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Large).  In addition, thunderstorms are accompanied by lightning that can pose a hazard to characters without proper shelter (especially those in metal armor). As a rule of thumb, assume one bolt per minute for a 1 hour period at the center of the storm. Each bolt causes electricity damage equal to 1d10 eight-sided dice.
Aberrant Sky:An aberrant sky appears twisted and wrong, filled with an unearthly shade of light and clouds of impossible and monstrous shapes. Creatures which gaze upon an aberrant sky must succeed on a DC 18 Will save or be driven insane, suffering the effects of <i>confusion</i> for 1d6 hours. Roll on the following table at the beginning of each affected creature's turn each round to see what the creature does in that round.  <table><tr><th>d%</th><th>Behavior</th></tr><tr><td>01-10</td><td>Do nothing but babble incoherently</td></tr><tr><td>11-20</td><td>Act normally</td></tr><tr><td>21-50</td><td>Do nothing but babble incoherently</td></tr><tr><td>51-70</td><td>Flee in a random direction</td></tr><tr><td>71-00</td><td>Attack the nearest creature</td></tr></table>
Acid Rain:Acid rain deals 1d6 points of acid damage (DC 15 Reflex save negates) each minute to anyone caught out in the open without shelter.  Rain reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Rain automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.
Animus Blizzard:The combination of high winds, heavy snow (typically 1d3 feet), and bitter cold make blizzards deadly for all who are unprepared for them. Further, animus blizzards are infused with negative energy, and any creature which perishes in one becomes a wight 1d4 rounds later.  Blizzards reduce visibility to zero, making Spot, Search, and Listen checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible. All sight, including darkvision, is obscured beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance).  Blizzards automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They have a 75% chance to extinguish protected flames, such as those of lanterns.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).  In addition, blizzards leave 1d3 feet of heavy snow on the ground afterward. It costs 4 squares of movement to enter a square covered with heavy snow. A blizzard may result in snowdrifts 1d4 x 5 feet deep, especially in and around objects big enough to deflect the wind -- a cabin or a large tent, for instance.
Arcane Tempest:An arcane tempest appears to be a normal thunderstorm, but possesses a powerful magical aura. All spells and spell-like abilities used within the tempest are empowered as if affected by the Empower Spell feat, although a spell so affected doesn't require a higher-level spell slot or additional casting time. Spells and spell-like abilities that are already empowered are unaffected.  The combined effects of precipitation and wind reduce visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Arcane tempests make ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Arcane tempests automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They cause protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and have a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save or be blown away (Tiny or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Small; prone), or checked (Medium; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Small or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Medium), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Large).  In addition, thunderstorms are accompanied by lightning that can pose a hazard to characters without proper shelter (especially those in metal armor). As a rule of thumb, assume one bolt per minute for a 1 hour period at the center of the storm. Each bolt causes electricity damage equal to 1d10 eight-sided dice.
Blacksleet:Blacksleet is frozen rain imbued with negative energy. Creatures caught out in the open without shelter must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save once every hour or gain 1 negative level.  Each negative level gives a creature a -1 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, ability checks, and effective level (for determining the power, duration, DC, and other details of spells or special abilities). Additionally, a spellcaster loses one spell or spell slot from his or her highest available level. Negative levels stack. If the subject has at least as many negative levels as HD, it dies.  Twenty-four hours after gaining a negative level, the subject must make a Fort saving throw against the same DC for each negative level. If the save succeeds, that negative level is removed. If it fails, the negative level also goes away, but one of the subject's character levels is permanently drained.  Sleet reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Sleet automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 75% chance to extinguish these lights.  A day of sleet leaves 1d6 inches of loose ice on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a sleet-covered square.
Celestial Clarity:The sky is a perfect azure blue, colors seem more vibrant, and details appear sharper. Celestial clarity grants a +4 bonus to Spot, Search, Listen, and Sense Motive checks. It also negates any fear or confusion effects.
Clockwork Clouds:Clouds shaped like gears spin slowly overhead, sometimes interlocking with other clouds to form complex clockworks.
Crimson Fog:These dread fogs drift from distant and bloody battlefields, bringing with them terrible visions of death and madness. Fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance). In addition, creatures within the fog must succeed on a DC 15 Will save once every minute or act randomly.  <table><tr><th>d%</th><th>Behavior</th></tr><tr><td>01-50</td><td>Act normally</td></tr><tr><td>51-70</td><td>Flee in a random direction</td></tr><tr><td>71-00</td><td>Attack the nearest creature</td></tr></table>
Dire Hail:Dire hail is at least an inch in size, and covered with sharp spikes of ice. It deals 1d6 points of damage (DC 15 Reflex save negates) each minute to anyone caught out in the open without shelter. The sound of falling hail imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks.  A day of hail leaves 1d6 inches of loose ice on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a hail-covered square.
Draconic Clouds:Clouds shaped like dragons and winged wyrms twist through the sky, sometimes colliding and tearing through each other.
Dragon's Breath:Gusts of hot air blow out of the east, accompanied by wisps of flame. Dragon's breath has a 50% chance of igniting candles, torches, tinder, loose paper, and similar flammable objects.
Empyrean Sky:Golden or rose colored light fills the sky, and heroes and heroic deeds are granted divine favor. Good characters beneath an empyrean sky gain a +2 morale bonus to attack rolls and a +4 morale bonus to skill checks, and neutral characters gain a +1 morale bonus to attack rolls and a +2 morale bonus to skill checks.
Ethereal Fog:Ethereal fog is a shimmering mist which manifests suddenly and out of thin air. It obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance). In addition, creatures taking a movement action within the fog must succeed on a DC 15 Will save or be teleported to a different random location within the fog.
Expeditious Tailwind:An expeditious tailwind is a fey zephyr which follows creatures, pushing them along more swiftly. Creatures gain an enhancement bonus of 30 feet to their walking or flying speed.  Expeditious wind has a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.
Firestorm:A firestorm manifests as a swirling cloud of smoke which suddenly explodes with flashes of fire and sheets of falling flame. Firestorms deal 1d6 points of fire damage (DC 15 Reflex save negates) each round to anyone caught out in the open without shelter, but rarely last more than a few minutes.  The combined effects of smoke and wind reduce visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Firestorms make ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save or be blown away (Tiny or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Small; prone), or checked (Medium; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Small or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Medium), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Large).  Firestorms leave behind a deposit of 1d6 inches of fine ash.
Gatestorm:Gatestorms can manifest suddenly and out of thin air. They appear at first as clouds of twinkling stars, but within seconds transform into maelstroms of powerful winds and dimensional gates which flash open randomly. Creatures of Medium size or smaller and airborne creatures of Gargantuan size or smaller must succeed on a DC 15 Fort or Will save (player's choice) every minute or be blown through a gate to a random plane of existence or alternate dimension. A gatestorm typically lasts for only 1d6 minutes before fading as suddenly as it appeared.  The wind of a gatestorm is powerful enough to bring down branches if not whole trees, and impose a -8 penalty on Listen checks. Ranged weapon attacks are impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Gatestorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They have a 75% chance to extinguish protected flames, such as those of lanterns.  Large or Huge creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be checked (unable to move forward against the force of the wind).
Ghoststorm:A chill windstorm brings a cacophany of noises, including the lost voices of the dead. An individual of at least third level (3 HD) who spends ten minutes within the storm shouting the name of a deceased creature might attract that spirit's attention. They may then convey one message or ask one question before the voice is carried away. However, answers are usually brief, cryptic, or fragmentary.  Ghoststorms impose a -8 penalty on Listen checks due to the howling of the wind. Ranged weapon attacks are impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  Ghoststorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They have a 75% chance to extinguish protected flames, such as those of lanterns.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).
Hallucinatory Storm:Dark clouds shot through with lightning rage overhead, and rumbling thunder and howling winds fill the air. The noise imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks, but the storm has no other effect.
Immuring Sleet:Immuring sleet falls as rain, but freezes into masses of ice the instant it touches an object or creature. Creatures caught out in the open without shelter must attempt a DC 15 Fort save once every hour.  A creature which has failed one saving throw is covered with masses of ice, and is slowed. A slowed creature can take only a single move action or standard action each turn, but not both (nor may it take full-round actions). It moves at half its normal speed (round down to the next 5-foot increment). Additionally, it takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls, AC, and Reflex saves.  A creature which fails a second saving throw becomes frozen to the ground, and is immobilized. It cannot move, and can take only a single standard action each turn. Additionally, it takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls, AC, and Reflex saves.  A creature which fails a third saving throw becomes trapped within solid ice, and is paralyzed. A paralyzed creature is unable to move or act. It has effective Dexterity and Strength scores of 0 and is helpless, but can take purely mental actions.  A creature which fails a fourth saving throw becomes completely entombed within a large mass of solid ice, and dies.  Sleet reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Sleet automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 75% chance to extinguish these lights.  A day of immuring sleet leaves 1d6 inches of solid ice on the ground. Creatures walking on ice must spend 2 squares of movement to enter a square covered by ice, and the DC for Balance and Tumble checks increases by +5.
Incendiary Clouds:Clouds of roiling smoke shot through with hot embers drift overhead, casting a fiery glow. Airborne creatures flying into an incendiary cloud cause it to ignite, dealing 4d6 points of fire damage (DC 18 Reflex save negates).
Incorporeal Wind:Incorporeal wind passes through physical objects and barriers, such as clothing, armor, walls, and solid earth and stone. It negates any benefit of winter clothing against cold and exposure effects, but also negates any penalty for heavy clothing or armor against heat. Incorporeal wind is blocked only by <i>mage armor</i>, <i>wall of force</i>, and similar force effects.
Leaden Snow:Leaden snow appears to be normal snow, but is far heavier. Objects beneath leaden snow take 1d6 points of damage per inch of snowfall. Creatures beneath leaden snow take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage per minute. If a creature falls unconscious beneath leaden show, it takes 1d6 points of lethal damage (DC 15 Constitution check negates) each minute thereafter until freed or dead.  Snow reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks. Leaden snow makes ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for those using siege weapons, which suffer a -4 penalty on attack rolls.  A day of snowfall leaves 1d6 inches of snow on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a snow-covered square.
Leaden Snowstorm:Leaden snow appears to be normal snow, but is far heavier. Objects beneath leaden snow take 1d6 points of damage per inch of snowfall. Creatures beneath leaden snow take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage per minute. If a creature falls unconscious beneath leaden show, it takes 1d6 points of lethal damage (DC 15 Constitution check negates) each minute thereafter until freed or dead.  The combined effects of precipitation and wind reduce visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot, Search, and Listen checks. Leaden snowstorms make ranged weapon attacks impossible, even those using siege weapons.  Snowstorms automatically extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. They cause protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and have a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.  Creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Fort save or be blown away (Small or smaller creatures; knocked prone and rolled 1d4 x 10 feet, taking 1d4 points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet), knocked down (Medium; prone), or checked (Large or Huge; unable to move forward against the force of the wind).  Airborne creatures are instead blown back 2d6 x 10 feet and dealt 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting (Medium or smaller creatures), blown back 1d6 x 10 feet (Large), or blown back 1d6 x 5 feet (Huge or Gargantuan).  In addition, snowstorms leave 1d6 inches of snow on the ground afterward. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a snow-covered square.
Lethe Snow:Lethe snow is imbued with enchantment magic, and is often accompanied by a faint tinkling sound as it falls. Creatures caught out in the open without shelter must succeed on a DC 15 Fort save once every hour or fall asleep for 1 hour.  Sleeping creatures are helpless. Slapping or wounding awakens an affected creature, but normal noise or cold damage does not. Awakening a creature is a standard action (an application of the aid another action).  Snow reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  A day of snowfall leaves 1d6 inches of snow on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a snow-covered square.
Levitant Ice:Levitant ice occurs when strange alchemical essences become mixed into cold clouds. Unsecured creatures and objects lose weight as ice accumulates upon them, and after one minute begin floating upwards at the rate of twenty feet per round. The effect ends gradually, as the levitant ice melts.  Sleet reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Sleet automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 75% chance to extinguish these lights.
Luminous Clouds:Luminous clouds cast light as bright as full daylight, even at night. Creatures which suffer penalties or are damaged or destroyed by daylight are similarly affected by luminous cloudlight. Magical darkness of any level counters luminous cloudlight.
Phantom Snow:Phantom snow was named by rogues and thieves, who take particular advantage of it. Anyone moving upon it does so silently (+4 bonus to Move Silently checks), and leaves neither track nor trace of their passage.  Snow reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  A day of snowfall leaves 1d6 inches of snow on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a snow-covered square.
Prismatic Rain:Prismatic rain falls in brilliant, rainbow-hued drops. Prismatic rain reduces visibility by three quarters, imposing a -8 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Rain automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.
Psychic Calm:A supernatural calm settles over the land, stopping raging creatures from fighting and joyous ones from reveling. Creatures cannot take violent actions (although they can defend themselves) or do anything destructive. Psychic calm negates any morale bonuses granted by spells such as <i>bless</i>, <i>good hope</i>, and <i>rage</i>, as well as a bard's ability to inspire courage or a barbarian's rage ability. It also negates any fear or confusion effects.
Reverse Rain:Reverse rain rises in sheets from pools, lakes, streams, rivers, and other open water into the sky.  Rain reduces visibility by half, imposing a -4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It also imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks and ranged weapon attacks.  Rain automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish these lights.
Rogue Zephyr:Rogue zephyrs are gentle but magical breezes which undo simple (those of DC 20 or less) knots, locks, bolts, manacles, shackles, and similar impediments.  A rogue zephyr has a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.
Skyquake:Violent shockwaves suddenly tear through the sky, causing it to crack and clouds to be torn apart and scattered. Creatures must make a DC 15 Fort save or be deafened for 1 hour from the thunderous noise. Airborne creatures must make an additional DC 15 Fort save or take 2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting.
Solid Fog:Fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. Creatures 5 feet away have concealment (attacks by or against them have a 20% miss chance). In addition, solid fog is so thick that any creature attempting to move through it progresses at a speed of 5 feet, regardless of its normal speed. A creature can't take a 5-foot step while in solid fog.  Solid fog imposes a -2 penalty on melee attacks and damage rolls and makes ranged weapon attacks impossible, except for magic rays and the like. A creature or object that falls into solid fog is slowed, so that each 10 feet of vapor that it passes through reduces falling damage by 1d6.
Spiderweb Clouds:Tangled strands of cloud fill the sky like spiderwebs. Airborne creatures which fly into a spiderweb cloud become entangled (DC 15 Reflex save negates). An entangled creature moves at half speed, cannot run or charge, and takes a -2 penalty on all attack rolls and a -4 penalty to Dexterity.
Starfall Hail:Stars fall from the sky, plummeting to the ground as frozen pellets of soft, fading light. After a starfall hail, the night sky remains totally dark until the next evening.  The sound of falling hail imposes a -4 penalty on Listen checks. Sometimes hail can become large enough to deal 1 point of lethal damage (per storm) to anything in the open.  A day of hail leaves 1d6 inches of loose ice on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a hail-covered square. An area covered by starfall hail provides shadowy illumination.
Temporal Wind:Temporal winds are rarely severe in any physical dimension, but can easily blow creatures through the dimension of time. Creatures must succeed on a DC 15 Will save or be blown 1d6 hours forward. The creature seems to disappear in a shimmer of silver light, then reappears later in exactly the same space (or closest unoccupied space), orientation, and condition as before. From the affected creature's point of view, no time has passed at all.  Temporal wind has a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.
Thunder Hail:Thunder hail strikes the ground with deafening blasts of noise and ice shrapnel. It deals 1d6 points of damage (DC 15 Fort save negates) each minute to anyone caught out in the open without shelter. The sound of thunder hail makes Listen checks impossible.  A day of hail leaves 1d6 inches of loose ice on the ground. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter a hail-covered square.
Volant Mistral:While a volant mistral blows, an individual of at least fifth level (5 HD) can fly at a speed of 40 feet (or 30 feet if it wears medium or heavy armor, or if it carries a medium or heavy load). It can ascend at half speed and descend at double speed, and its maneuverability is good. Flying requires only as much concentration as walking, so the individual can attack or cast spells normally.  A volant mistral has a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.
Whispering Wind:While a whispering wind blows, an individual of at least third level (3 HD) can send a message or sound on the wind to a designated location. The location must be familiar and within one mile. The message is delivered regardless of whether anyone is present to hear it.  Whispering wind has a 50% chance of extinguishing candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames.